"B mi" Bianca, take him for thy lord-	
"Brutus" will start a spirit as soon as "Caesar."	
"These are their reasons; they are natural":	
'A can carve too, and lisp; why this is he	
'Accommodated!' It comes of accommodo. Very good; a good phrase.	
'Ad Martem' that's for myself.	
'An if a man did need a poison now	
'Ay, by gogs-wouns' quoth he, and swore so loud	
'Call me not fool till heaven hath sent me fortune.'	
'For I must bear thee to a trusty Goth,	
'Frets, call you these?' quoth she 'I'll fume with them.'	
'Gainst foreign storms than any home-bred marriage.	
'Gainst me that I cannot take peace with. No black envy	
'God send me no need of thee!' and by the operation of the second	
'Happy am I that have a man so bold	
'Here you may see Benedick the married man.'	
'Hundred Merry Tales.' Well, this was Signior Benedick that said	
'I know' quoth he 'no house, no wife, no mistress.'	
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'	
'Let him shun castles;	
'Let us make head.' It was your pre-surmise	
'Nearest his heart,' those are the very words.	
'O sir,' says answer 'at your best command,	
'Pardon' should be the first word of thy speech.	
'Remember now my brother.'	
'T has done, upon the premises, but justice.	
'That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,	
'Thou maiden youth, be vanquish'd by a maid.'	
'Thus didest thou.'	
'Tis a shrewd doubt, though it be but a dream.	
'Tis better to be vile than vile esteemed,	
'Tis certain, greatness, once fall'n out with fortune,	
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,	
'Tis good you know not that you are his heirs,	
'Tis hatch'd, and shall be so. Tranio, at once	
'Tis like she comes to speak of Cassio's death.	
'Tis meet that lucky ruler be employ'd,	
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,	
'Tis needful that the most immodest word	
'Tis not the King that sends you to the Tower;	
'Tis not your inky brows, your black silk hair,	
'Tis past, and so am I.- But what art thou	
'Tis pretty, sure, and very probable,	
'Tis said the stout Parisians do revolt	
'Tis so, I am an ass; else it could never be	
'Tis warm at's heart.	
'Tis you must dig with mattock and with spade,	
'Tween man and man; but thou, thou meagre lead,	
'Twere pregnant they should square between themselves;	
'When he swears oaths, bid him drop gold, and take it;	
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'	
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'	
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'	
'You that choose not by the view,	
'Your (wife, so I would say) affectionate servant,	
'a? Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I may find the young	
'and run.' Well, my conscience, hanging about the neck of my	
'em; that is all.	
(Although as yet the face of it be cover'd	
(If ever love had interest in his liver)	
(Making lascivious comments on thy sport)	
(More harder than the stones whereof 'tis rais'd,	
(Which like dumb mouths do ope their ruby lips	
--an innocent rhyme; for 'scorn,' 'horn'--a hard rhyme; for	
-Luce, thou hast answer'd him well.	
1. Car. God's body! the turkeys in my pannier are quite starved.	
1. Mus. Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.	
1. Play. 'Anon he finds him,	
101	
104	
116	
123	
125	
130	
136	
140	
149	
153	
1593	
1597	
1607	
19	
2. Car. Ay, when? canst tell? Lend me thy lantern, quoth he? Marry,	
2. Mus. Pray you put up your dagger, and put out your wit.	
2. Then two JUDGES.	
2. Watch. Here's Romeo's man. We found him in the churchyard.	
2. Watch. Never speak, we charge you. Let us obey you to go with	
2. Watch. [aside] Some treason, masters. Yet stand close.	
21	
22	
40	
42	
5. MAYOR OF LONDON, bearing the mace. Then GARTER, in	
56	
6	
66	
7	
72	
90	
<Exeunt	
<Exit	
<Exit	
A PAGE, Servant to the Countess of Rousillon	
A Roman sworder and banditto slave	
A SOOTHSAYER	
A Sexton.	
A bachelor, and a handsome stripling too.	
A bedchamber in the LORD'S house	
A bell rings.	
A better witness back than words, which we,	
A borrowed title hast thou bought too dear:	
A camp at a short distance from Rome	
A care-craz'd mother to a many sons,	
A carrion Death, within whose empty eye	
A cause for thy repeal, we shall not send	
A cherry lip, a bonny eye, a passing pleasing tongue;	
A chough of as deep chat. O, that you bore	
A combination and a form indeed	
A comfort of retirement lives in this.	
A conqueror that will pray in aid for kindness	
A court within the Castle of the Earl of Gloucester.	
A crow that flies in heaven's sweetest air.	
A dateless bargain to engrossing death!	
A dearer merit, not so deep a maim	
A dozen years; within which space she died,	
A drop of Grecian blood. The end crowns all;	
A face without a heart,'	
A far more glorious star thy soul will make	
A father, and a gracious aged man,	
A field of battle between the Roman and the Volscian camps	
A field of battle near Barnet	
A foe to tyrants, and my country's friend.	
A gentle scroll. Fair lady, by your leave;	
A gentleman that well deserves a help,	
A golden mind stoops not to shows of dross;	
A great-siz'd monster of ingratitudes.	
A halter, soldiers! Hang him on this tree,	
A hilding for a livery, a squire's cloth,	
A horse and a man	
A horse whereon the governor doth ride,	
A hundred thousand more, in surety of the which,	
A husband and a son thou ow'st to me;	
A joyful issue.	
A knack, a toy, a trick, a baby's cap.	
A lawn before the DUKE'S palace	
A lion fell, nor else no lion's dam;	
A lioness, with udders all drawn dry,	
A mad-cap ruffian and a swearing Jack,	
A man in all the world's new fashion planted,	
A man is master of his liberty;	
A man of thy profession and degree;	
A man worth any woman; overbuys me	
A meaner than myself; since I myself	
A mole cinque-spotted, like the crimson drops	
A most miraculous work in this good King,	
A murther, which I thought a sacrifice.	
A noble company! What are their pleasures?	
A nunnery	
A passion hateful to my purposes;	
A peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.	
A person representing HYMEN	
A place next to the King.	
A plague upon it! it is in GIoucestershire-	
A plain near Actium	
A poor earl's daughter is unequal odds,	
A prince, Miranda; I do think, a king-	
A prophet to the fall of all our foes!	
A public place.	
A queen in jest, only to fill the scene.	
A royal battle might be won and lost.	
A salve for any sore that may betide.	
A scaly gauntlet now with joints of steel	
A second Hector, for his grim aspect	
A sennet sounded. Enter CAESAR, ANTONY, LEPIDUS,	
A senseless help, when help past sense we deem.	
A shield as hard as his. A certain number,	
A shower and thunder with their caps and shouts.	
A sin of perjury: she not denies it.	
A sleeping potion; which so took effect	
A street.	
A street.	
A street. Thunder and lightning.	
A sweet Athenian lady is in love	
A thing devised by the enemy.	
A thing inspir'd, and, not consulting, broke	
A thousand men that fishes gnaw'd upon,	
A thousand moral paintings I can show	
A thousand pounds by th' year: thus runs the bill.	
A thousand thousand to save,	
A threadbare juggler, and a fortune-teller,	
A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal,	
A torment thrice three-fold thus to be crossed:	
A traitor to his God, his King, and him;	
A troubled mind drave me to walk abroad;	
A true man or a thief that gallops so?	
A vapour sometime like a bear or lion,	
A vengeful canker eat him up to death.	
A very noble youth. Mark.	
A very serious business calls on him.	
A witch by fear, not force, like Hannibal,	
A woman, I dare say without vain-glory,	
A worthy friend. The King has made him Master	
AARON.  [Aside]  If that be call'd deceit, I will be honest,	
AARON. Away, I say!	
AARON. Swear that he shall, and then I will begin.	
AARON. The Emperess, the midwife, and yourself.	
AARON. Titus Andronicus, my lord the Emperor	
AARON. Why, so, brave lords! When we join in league	
ABBESS. How long hath this possession held the man?	
ABBESS. Renowned Duke, vouchsafe to take the pains	
ABERGAVENNY. I do know	
ACHILLES. Come, thou shalt bear a letter to him straight.	
ACHILLES. Go call Thersites hither, sweet Patroclus.	
ACHILLES. He is a privileg'd man. Proceed, Thersites.	
ACHILLES. My sweet Patroclus, I am thwarted quite	
ACHILLES. Peace, fool.	
ACHILLES. Welcome, brave Hector; welcome, Princes all.	
ACHILLES. What mean these fellows? Know they not Achilles?	
ACT I. SCENE 1.	
ACT I. SCENE 2.	
ACT I. SCENE 4.	
ACT I. SCENE I.	
ACT I. SCENE I.	
ACT I. SCENE I.	
ACT II. SCENE 3.	
ACT II. SCENE I.	
ACT II. Scene I.	
ACT III. SCENE 1.	
ACT III. SCENE 2.	
ACT III. SCENE 3.	
ACT III. SCENE I.	
ACT III. SCENE I.	
ACT III. SCENE I.	
ACT III. SCENE I.	
ACT IV. SCENE 2.	
ACT IV. SCENE I.	
ACT IV. SCENE I.	
ACT IV. SCENE I.	
ACT IV. SCENE I.	
ACT IV. SCENE I.	
ACT Il. SCENE 1	
ACT V. SCENE 1.	
ACT V. SCENE 1.	
ACT V. SCENE 4.	
ACT_3|SC_3	
ACT_4|SC_10	
ACT_4|SC_12	
ACT_4|SC_6	
ACT_4|SC_8	
ADAM. No matter whither, so you come not here.	
ADRIANA. Come, come, no longer will I be a fool,	
ADRIANA. Didst speak him fair?	
ADRIANA. He came to me, and I deliver'd it.	
ADRIANA. I did not, gentle husband, lock thee forth.	
ADRIANA. I will attend my husband, be his nurse,	
ADRIANA. It may be so, but I did never see it.	
ADRIANA. The hours come back! That did I never hear.	
ADRIANA. This week he hath been heavy, sour, sad,	
ADRIANA. To none of these, except it be the last;	
AEGEON. I am sure you both of you remember me.	
AEGEON. If I dream not, thou art Aemilia.	
AEGEON. My youngest boy, and yet my eldest care,	
AEGEON. O, had the gods done so, I had not now	
AEGEON. Proceed, Solinus, to procure my fall,	
AEMILIUS. Lord Lucius, and you Princes of the Goths,	
AENEAS. By Priam, and the general state of Troy.	
AENEAS. In all swift haste.	
AENEAS. My lord, you do discomfort all the host.	
AENEAS. Sir, pardon; 'tis for Agamemnon's ears.	
AENEAS. We know each other well.	
AENEAS. Yea, with a bridegroom's fresh alacrity	
AGAMEMNON. Even this.	
AGAMEMNON. Most dearly welcome to the Greeks, sweet lady.	
AGRIPPA. Give me leave, Caesar.	
AGRIPPA. Sir, Mark Antony	
AGRIPPA. Sir, this should be answer'd.	
AGRIPPA. Thou hast a sister by the mother's side,	
AGUECHEEK. And we do not, it is pity of our lives.	
AGUECHEEK. Faith, so they say; but I think it rather consists of	
AGUECHEEK. Good, i' faith! Come, begin.           [Catch sung]	
AGUECHEEK. Her C's, her U's, and her T's. Why that?	
AGUECHEEK. If I do not, never trust me; take it how you will.	
AGUECHEEK. Or o' mine either?	
AGUECHEEK. Pistol him, pistol him.	
AGUECHEEK. Why, I think so; I am not such an ass but I can keep my	
AGUECHEEK. Will either of you bear me a challenge to him?	
AJAX. A whoreson dog, that shall palter with us thus!	
AJAX. Great Agamemnon comes to meet us here.	
AJAX. I say, the proclamation.	
AJAX. If I might in entreaties find success,	
AJAX. O, meaning you! I will go learn more of it.            Exeunt	
AJAX. Speak, then, thou whinid'st leaven, speak. I will beat thee	
ALCIBIADES, an Athenian captain	
ALCIBIADES. Then there's my glove;	
ALENCON. Be it so.	
ALENCON. Doubtless he shrives this woman to her smock;	
ALENCON. Leave off delays, and let us raise the siege.	
ALEXAS. Vex not his prescience; be attentive.	
ALEXAS. We'll know all our fortunes.	
ALICE. D'elbow.	
ALICE. De nick, madame.	
ALICE. Oui. Sauf votre honneur, en verite, vous prononcez les mots	
ALL.                   We are very sorry for't.	
ALL.  [Kneeling]  No man shed tears for noble Mutius;	
ALL. Alas, and woe!	
ALL. Ay, marry, will we; therefore get ye gone.	
ALL. Caius Marcius Coriolanus!	
ALL. Double, double, toil and trouble;	
ALL. Have with you to see this monster.                 Exeunt	
ALL. Long live Edward the Fourth!	
ALL. No, no; no man saw 'em.	
ALL. Revenge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kill!	
ALL. Show his eyes, and grieve his heart;	
ALL. Thanks, Jupiter!	
ALL. Well contented.	
ALONSO. I am hers.	
ALONSO. Irreparable is the loss; and patience	
ALONSO. What is this maid with whom thou wast at play?	
AMIENS. My voice is ragged; I know I cannot please you.	
AMIENS. What's that 'ducdame'?	
AN OLD ATHENIAN	
AN OLD LADY, friend to Anne Bullen	
ANDROMACHE. When was my lord so much ungently temper'd	
ANGELO'S house	
ANGELO. Benefactors! Well- what benefactors are they? Are they not	
ANGELO. Nay, women are frail too.	
ANGELO. Plainly conceive, I love you.	
ANGELO. See where they come; we will behold his death.	
ANGELO. Stay a little while. [To ISABELLA] Y'are welcome; what's	
ANGELO. When I would pray and think, I think and pray	
ANGELO. Where is the Provost?	
ANGELO. Yet give leave, my lord,	
ANGELO. You are a merry man, sir; fare you well.	
ANGELO. You know I gave it you half an hour since.	
ANGUS, nobleman of Scotland	
ANNE. Good Master Shallow, let him woo for himself.	
ANNE. I fear me both are false.	
ANNE. I have already.	
ANNE. I mean, Master Slender, what would you with me?	
ANNE. My good lord,	
ANNE. Now, I pray God, amen!	
ANNE. So much the more	
ANNE. Thou wast the cause and most accurs'd effect.	
ANNE. What black magician conjures up this fiend	
ANNE. What, do you tremble? Are you all afraid?	
ANNE. Where is he?	
ANNE. Will't please your worship to come in, sir?	
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I am not furnish'd with the present money;	
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Thou art sensible in nothing but	
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Went'st not thou to her for purse of ducats?	
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. Y'are sad, Signior Balthazar; pray God our cheer	
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. You gave me none; you wrong me much to say so.	
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Aegeon, art thou not? or else his	
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Dost thou not know?	
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. For gazing on your beams, fair sun, being by.	
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I think it be, sir; I deny it not.	
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I will not stay to-night for all the town;	
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Shall I tell you why?	
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Stop in your wind, sir; tell me this, I pray:	
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. This purse of ducats I receiv'd from you,	
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What gold is this? What Adam dost thou mean?	
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What is your will that I shall do with this?	
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. What's her name?	
ANTONIO. A space whose ev'ry cubit	
ANTONIO. Ay, sir; where lies that? If 'twere a kibe,	
ANTONIO. Draw together;	
ANTONIO. Fie, fie, Gratiano, where are all the rest?	
ANTONIO. He'd sow 't with nettle-seed.	
ANTONIO. I'll teach you how to flow.	
ANTONIO. If you will not murder me for my love, let me be your	
ANTONIO. Long live Gonzalo!	
ANTONIO. None, man; all idle; whores and knaves.	
ANTONIO. One, sir, that for his love dares yet do more	
ANTONIO. That 'sort' was well fish'd for.	
ANTONIO. Very foul.	
ANTONIO. Will you deny me now?	
ANTONIO. Would you'd pardon me.	
ANTONIO. You know me well, and herein spend but time	
ANTONY. Approach there.- Ah, you kite!- Now, gods and devils!	
ANTONY. Bear me, good friends, where Cleopatra bides;	
ANTONY. But yesterday the word of Caesar might	
ANTONY. Dead then?	
ANTONY. Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears!	
ANTONY. Gentle, hear me:	
ANTONY. I am dying, Egypt, dying; only	
ANTONY. I did not think to draw my sword 'gainst Pompey;	
ANTONY. I have fled myself, and have instructed cowards	
ANTONY. If we compose well here, to Parthia.	
ANTONY. Is that his answer?	
ANTONY. Lo thee!                            [Turning from him]	
ANTONY. No more light answers. Let our officers	
ANTONY. Now, sirrah, you do wish yourself in Egypt?	
ANTONY. So is my horse, Octavius, and for that	
ANTONY. Sometime we see a cloud that's dragonish;	
ANTONY. They are so.	
ANTONY. Where died she?	
ANTONY. [To CAESAR] Thus do they, sir: they take the flow o' th'	
APEMANTUS. A plague on thee! thou art too bad to curse.	
APEMANTUS. Ay.	
APEMANTUS. Flow this way! A brave fellow! He keeps his tides well.	
APEMANTUS. No; I eat not lords.	
APEMANTUS. That I had no angry wit to be a lord.- Art not thou a	
APEMANTUS. The middle of humanity thou never knewest, but the	
APEMANTUS. Thou art a fool to bid me farewell twice.	
APEMANTUS. Toad!	
APEMANTUS. Traffic's thy god, and thy god confound thee!	
APEMANTUS. Would 'twere so!	
ARCHBISHOP.  [To the QUEEN]  My gracious lady, go.	
ARCHBISHOP. For what offence?	
ARIEL.  [Aside to PROSPERO]  Was't well done?	
ARIEL. Before you can say 'come' and 'go,'	
ARIEL. You are three men of sin, whom Destiny,	
ARMADO. By heart and in heart, boy.	
ARMADO. By my sweet soul, I mean setting thee at liberty,	
ARMADO. Fetch hither the swain; he must carry me a letter.	
ARMADO. I spoke it, tender juvenal, as a congruent epitheton	
ARMADO. Sweet air! Go, tenderness of years, take this key, give	
ARMADO. Why tough signior? Why tough signior?	
ARMADO. [To HOLOFERNES] Monsieur, are you not lett'red?	
ARRAGON. And so have I address'd me. Fortune now	
ARTHUR. And will you?	
ARTHUR. Good my mother, peace!	
ARTHUR. Is there no remedy?	
ARTHUR. O heaven! I thank you, Hubert.	
ARVIRAGUS. All gold and silver rather turn to dirt,	
ARVIRAGUS. Nor no witchcraft charm thee!	
ARVIRAGUS. O' th' floor;	
ARVIRAGUS. The bird is dead	
ARVIRAGUS. Thus did he answer me; yet said hereafter	
ARVIRAGUS. We'll not be long away.	
ARVIRAGUS. What pleasure, sir, find we in life, to lock it	
AUDREY. Ay, I know who 'tis; he hath no interest in me in the	
AUDREY. Faith, the priest was good enough, for all the old	
AUDREY. Your features! Lord warrant us! What features?	
AUFIDIUS. All places yield to him ere he sits down,	
AUFIDIUS. Even so	
AUFIDIUS. Say, what's thy name?	
AUFIDIUS. What is thy name?	
AUMERLE. Cousin, farewell; what presence must not know,	
AUMERLE. Fitzwater, thou art damn'd to hell for this.	
AUMERLE. God save your Grace! I do beseech your Majesty,	
AUMERLE. If God prevent not, I purpose so.	
AUMERLE. Stay thy revengeful hand; thou hast no cause to fear.	
AUMERLE. Who sets me else? By heaven, I'll throw at all!	
Abate thy rage, abate thy manly rage;	
Abetting him to thwart me in my mood!	
About him, fairies; sing a scornful rhyme;	
About relieving of the sentinels.	
Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?	
Above yon busky hill! The day looks pale	
Abr. No better.	
Abr. Quarrel, sir? No, sir.	
Abus'd extremely, and to cry 'That's witty!'	
Accompany your hearts!	
Accoutred as I was, I plunged in	
Accuse him home and home. For my poor self,	
Achilles shall have word of this intent;	
Action, nor utterance, nor the power of speech,	
Add thereto a tiger's chawdron,	
Adjudg'd an olive branch and laurel crown,	
Adore our errors, laugh at's while we strut	
Advantaging their loan with interest	
Affection makes him false, he speaks not true.	
After he scores, he never pays the score.	
After his brother, and importun'd me	
After my death (dear love) forget me quite,	
After some respite will return to Calais;	
After th' admired heels of Bolingbroke,	
After young Arthur, claim this land for mine;	
Again uncurse their souls; their peace is made	
Against an oracle.	
Against her maiden truth. Call me a fool;	
Against his brother and his lawful King?	
Against my child, my daughter Hermia.	
Against my love shall be as I am now	
Against the bosom of the Prince of Wales.	
Against the envy of less happier lands;	
Against the mind, the which he pricks and wounds	
Against the rectorship of judgment?	
Against the word,	
Against their father, fool me not so much	
Against this man-whose honesty the devil	
Against whose fury and unmatched force	
Agree these deeds with that proud brag of thine	
Agree to any covenants; and procure	
Ah for my husband, for my dear Lord Edward!	
Ah, froward Clarence, how evil it beseems the	
Ah, soldier!                                 [CHARMIAN dies]	
Ah, uncle Humphrey, in thy face I see	
Ah, would the scandal vanish with my life,	
Aiming, belike, at your interior hatred	
Ajax prouder than the cur Achilles, and will not arm to-day;	
Alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems	
Alack, no remedy!- to the greedy touch	
Alack, what mischiefs might he set abroach	
Alarum and retreat. Enter again CADE and all his rabblement	
Alarum. Enter RUTLAND and his TUTOR	
Alarum. Excursions. Enter the King, the Prince, Lord John of Lancaster,	
Alarum. Retreat. Enter YORK, RICHARD, WARWICK, and soldiers,	
Alarum. The Romans are beat back to their trenches.	
Alarums to the fight, wherein both the STAFFORDS are slain.	
Alarums, excursions. Enter the BASTARD with AUSTRIA'S head	
Alas, it cried, "Give me some drink, Titinius,"	
Alas, sweet aunt, I know not what you mean.	
Alb. Fall and cease!	
Alb. Half-blooded fellow, yes.	
Alb. That's but a trifle here.	
Alb. The gods defend her! Bear him hence awhile.	
Alb. This shows you are above,	
Alb. What news?	
Alb. Who dead? Speak, man.	
Albeit they were flesh'd villains, bloody dogs,	
Aldermen, Citizens, Soldiers, Messengers, Murderers, Keeper	
Alexander; Arinado's page, Hercules; the pedant, Judas	
Alexandria. The monument	
All at one cast? to set so rich a man	
All clinquant, all in gold, like heathen gods,	
All days are nights to see till I see thee,	
All guiltless, meet reproach. What, ho! My lord!	
All losses are restored, and sorrows end.	
All men are bad and in their badness reign.	
All the Talbots in the world, to save my life.          Exit	
All the pictures fairest lin'd	
All which we pine for now. And this report	
All, away!	
All. Gentlemen!	
All. No, let's come in!	
Allow obedience- if yourselves are old,	
Allow their officers, and are content	
Almost no grave allow'd me. Like the My,	
Along the field I will the Troyan trail.                   Exeunt	
Already are i' the court.	
Already to their wormy beds are gone,	
Although the last, not least; to whose young love	
Although this lord of weak remembrance, this	
Although you break it when your pleasure serves.	
Am for his love and service so to him.	
Ambition should be made of sterner stuff:	
Amiss to tumble on the bed of Ptolemy,	
Among my wife and her confederates,	
An 'twere to me, I should be mad at it.	
An I cannot, another can.	
An actor too perhaps, if I see cause.	
An advocate for an impostor! hush!	
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,	
An army have I muster'd in my thoughts,	
An esperance so obstinately strong,	
An hour of revels with 'em.	
An if I were thy nurse, thy tongue to teach,	
An if he will come to me.	
An if the wind blow any way from shore,	
And 'tis not done. The attempt and not the deed	
And Caesar shall go forth.	
And Death unloads thee. Friend hast thou none;	
And George, of Clarence; Warwick, as ourself,	
And God forgive them that so much have sway'd	
And God in justice hath reveal'd to us	
And I am faint and cannot fly their fury;	
And I am going with instruction to him.	
And I am tied to be obedient-	
And I for sorrow sung,	
And I forgive and quite forget old faults,	
And I have bred her at my dearest cost	
And I have heard Apollodorus carried-	
And I in such a poverty of grace,	
And I shall lose my life for want of language.	
And I should be obscur'd.	
And I thus humble ever.	
And I will boot thee with what gift beside	
And I will do it without fear or doubt,	
And I will look on both indifferently.	
And I will wish thee never more to dance,	
And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear	
And I'll be sworn 'tis true; travellers ne'er did lie,	
And I'll beweep these comforts, worthy senators.	
And I'll corrupt her manners, stain her beauty,	
And I'll salute your Grace of York as mother	
And I, her husband, contradict your banes.	
And I, the hapless male to one sweet bird,	
And I, to blame, have held him here too long.	
And In the morning early shall mine uncle	
And Lady Marquis Dorset. Will these please you?	
And Montague our top-mast; what of him?	
And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee	
And Rosaline they call her. Ask for her,	
And Somerset another goodly mast?	
And Suffolk's cloudy brow his stormy hate;	
And Thisby, tarrying in mulberry shade,	
And Tom bears logs into the hall,	
And Tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband.	
And Westmoreland. This is the news at full.	
And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'	
And able means, we had not parted thus.	
And add more coals to Cancer when he burns	
And after bite me; then like hedgehogs which	
And afterward by substitute betroth'd	
And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms;	
And all indign and base adversities	
And all my mother came into mine eyes	
And all my soul, and all my every part;	
And all such false professors! Would you have me-	
And all the brothers too- and yet I know not.	
And all the fertile land within that bound,	
And all the world was of my father's mind;	
And all their lands restor'd to them again	
And all thing unbecoming.	
And all things change them to the contrary.	
And all this courtesy! The strain of man's bred out	
And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit	
And all to make away my guiltless life.	
And all wide-stretched honours that pertain,	
And all your southern gentlemen in arms	
And am fallen out with my more headier will,	
And an eternal curse fall on you! Let me know.	
And are you yet to your own souls so blind	
And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!	
And as the dam runs lowing up and down,	
And ask him what apparel he will wear;	
And ask him why, that hour of fairy revel,	
And at that time he got his wife with child.	
And at the door too, like a post with packets.	
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes	
And bawds and whores do churches build:	
And be her sense but as a monument,	
And be no further harmful than in show.	
And be thy wife, if any be so mad,	
And be undone by 'em!                         Exit MESSENGER	
And bears his thoughts above his falcon's pitch.	
And beauty, that the tyrant oft reclaims,	
And beg thy pardon ere he do accuse thee.	
And bestial appetite in change of lust,	
And bid his ears a little while be deaf,	
And bid me, when my fate would have me wive,	
And bid that strumpet, your unhallowed dam,	
And bite thy tongue that slanders him with cowardice	
And bonny Kate, and sometimes Kate the curst;	
And bring thee forth brave brood.	
And browner than her brother.' Are not you	
And burgonet of men. He's speaking now,	
And burn in many places; on the topmast,	
And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet;	
And burn the long-lived phoenix, in her blood,	
And burns me up with flames that tears would quench.	
And burst of speaking, were as his. I am absolute	
And by and by thy bosom shall partake	
And by good fortune I have lighted well	
And by him do my duties to the Senate.	
And by how much she strives to do him good,	
And by still practice learn to know thy meaning.	
And by that fire which burn'd the Carthage Queen,	
And by that loss your daughter is made Queen.	
And by thy guess how nigh is Clarence now?	
And cannot now accept. To grace him only,	
And care not who they sting in his revenge.	
And carry back to Sicily much tall youth	
And certain stars shot madly from their spheres	
And change misdoubt to resolution;	
And cherish factions. 'Tis inferr'd to us	
And choke their art. The merciless Macdonwald-	
And comforts to your cause.	
And countenanc'd by boys and beggary-	
And couple Clowder with the deep-mouth'd brach.	
And craves your company for speedy counsel.	
And crowns for convoy put into his purse;	
And cruel Death hath catch'd it from my sight!	
And curb this cruel devil of his will.	
And dallies with the wind, and scorns the sun.	
And dar'st not stand, nor look me in the face.	
And dares him to set forward to the fight.	
And day by day I'll do this heavy task,	
And dead men's cries do fill the empty air,	
And death's pale flag is not advanced there.	
And die ere men can say 'God save the Queen!'	
And dispossessing all my other parts	
And do him homage as obedient subjects,	
And do not break into these deep extremes.	
And do not seek to take your charge upon you,	
And do not stand on quillets how to slay him;	
And do thee favours with my royal hands.	
And does blaspheme his breed? Thy royal father	
And dogged York, that reaches at the moon,	
And dost thou now fall over to my foes?	
And down goes all before them. Still be kind,	
And drive his purpose on to these delights.	
And dull to all proceedings. A deflow'red maid!	
And dumb presagers of my speaking breast,	
And durst not once peep out.	
And each hour's joy wreck'd with a week of teen.	
And each one to his office when he wakes.	
And either [master] the devil, or throw him out	
And either not attempt to choose at all,	
And ere we have thy youthful wages spent	
And even as I was then is Percy now.	
And ever three parts coward,- I do not know	
And every day that comes comes comes to	
And fall something into a slower method-	
And fall to reprobation.	
And fearest to die? Famine is in thy cheeks,	
And fetch shall echoes from the hollow earth.	
And fight and die is death destroying death,	
And fit it with such furniture as suits	
And fix most firm thy resolution.	
And fly would Talbot never, though he might.	
And follow me, that will to some provision	
And for I am richer than to hang by th' walls	
And for alliance sake, declare the cause	
And for his meed, poor lord, he is mewed up.	
And for my sake even so doth she abuse me,	
And for my tidings gave me twenty kisses.	
And for our eyes do hate the dire aspect	
And for that cause I train'd thee to my house.	
And for the Jew's bond which he hath of me,	
And for the peace of you I hold such strife	
And for those wrongs, those bitter injuries,	
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish	
And force perforce I'll make him yield the crown,	
And fought so long tiff that his thighs with darts	
And four shall quickly draw out my command,	
And friendship shall combine, and brotherhood.	
And full of purpose.	
And future ages groan for this foul act;	
And gave me up to tears.	
And get you from our court.	
And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets.	
And give as soft attachment to thy senses	
And give him light that it was blinded by.	
And give more strength to that which hath too much;	
And given me notice of their villainies.	
And go along with him?	
And go to't with delight.	
And grant, as Timon grows, his hate may grow	
And had I not been cited so by them,	
And had no help of anger; they were parted	
And half their faces buried in their cloaks,	
And hang more praise upon deceased I,	
And happily we might be interrupted.	
And haste her to the purpose.	
And hate the idle pleasures of these days.	
And have my learning from some true reports	
And have no vigour in them.	
And have our bodies slaught'red by thy foes.	
And he but naked, though lock'd up in steel,	
And he from forage will incline to play.	
And he hath brought us smooth and welcome news.	
And he that wears the crown immortally	
And hear thou there how many fruitless pranks	
And heard a mermaid on a dolphin's back	
And hell too strong for me to buckle with.	
And here my naked breast; within, a heart	
And here will rest me. [Lies down] Come, thou gentle day.	
And here's a prophet that I brought with me	
And here's the heart that triumphs in their death	
And hid the gold within that letter mention'd,	
And him as for a map doth Nature store,	
And his contract by deputy in France;	
And his enforcement of the city wives;	
And his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in nature	
And his soft couch defile.	
And his succession granted Rome a tribute,	
And his unbookish jealousy must construe	
And hit the woundless air.- O, come away!	
And hither have they sent it for her ransom.	
And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians;	
And hold our best advantage.                          Exeunt	
And hold their level with thy princely heart?	
And honour'd in their issue.                     [They sing]	
And how thou pleasest, God, dispose the day!          Exeunt	
And hurt my brother.	
And if his name be George, I'll call him Peter;	
And if it be so far beyond his health,	
And if these four Worthies in their first show thrive,	
And if thou vanquishest, thy words are true;	
And if you crown him, let me prophesy-	
And if you please to call it a rush-candle,	
And in a captive chariot into Rouen	
And in his ear I'll holloa 'Mortimer.'	
And in mine own love's strength seem to decay,	
And in my madness might speak ill of thee,	
And in my standard bear the arms of York,	
And in no sense is meet or amiable.	
And in no worldly suits would he be mov'd,	
And in our faults by lies we flattered be.	
And in our sight they three were taken up	
And in our sports my better cunning faints	
And in that chair where kings and queens were crown'd;	
And in the Duke's behalf I'll give my voice,	
And in the lawful name of marrying,	
And in the power of us the tribunes, we,	
And in the shape of Corin sat all day,	
And in their rage, I having hold of both,	
And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,	
And in this mood will give us anything.	
And in this seat of peace tumultuous wars	
And in this shape. When you have brought him thither,	
And is not that your bondman Dromio?	
And it is meet I presently set forth.	
And justice always whirls in equal measure.	
And justly and religiously unfold	
And keep invention in a noted weed,	
And keep our faiths firm and inviolable.	
And keep you in the rear of your affection,	
And kept asunder. You, madam, shall with us.	
And kill him in the shell.	
And kingly government of this your land-	
And knew no other kin.	
And knit our powers to the arm of peace.	
And know some nurture. But forbear, I say;	
And knowing what I am, I know what she shall be.	
And labour'd all I could to do him right;	
And laugh like parrots at a bag-piper;	
And lay my arms before the legs of this sweet lass of France.	
And learn to make a body of a limb.	
And leave itself unfurnish'd. Yet look how far	
And left me to a bootless inquisition,	
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,	
And let me say, that never wept before,	
And let me see thee in thy woman's weeds.	
And let that pine to aggravate thy store;	
And let these have a day appointed them	
And let us to the Tiger all to dinner;	
And let us, ciphers to this great accompt,	
And like a shifted wind unto a sail	
And linger not our sure destructions on.	
And live to be the show and gaze o' the time.	
And lofty proud encroaching tyranny-	
And loving farewell of our several friends.	
And made me climb, With danger of my life.	
And made my self a motley to the view,	
And made us speak like friends. This man was riding	
And madly play with my forefathers' joints,	
And maidens bleach their summer smocks;	
And mak'st them kiss! that speak'st with every tongue	
And make and mar	
And make her chronicle as rich with praise	
And make him proud to make me proud that jests!	
And make me travel forth without my cloak,	
And make my image but an alehouse sign.	
And make poor England weep in streams of blood!	
And make pursuit where he did mean no chase.	
And make the Douglas' son your only mean	
And make them skirr away as swift as stones	
And make us lose the good we oft might win	
And many a civil monster.	
And many an orphan's water-standing eye-	
And mark how well the sequel hangs together:	
And may our oaths well kept and prosp'rous be!	
And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame	
And men in dangerous bonds pray not alike;	
And might not be delivered to the world,	
And mine a sad one.	
And mingle with the English epicures!	
And mock the deep-mouth'd thunder; for at hand-	
And more, much more than in my verse can sit,	
And much different from the man he was;	
And my dear father. How features are abroad,	
And my ending is despair	
And my more-having would be as a sauce	
And my sick muse doth give an other place.	
And ne'er a true one.	
And ne'er prefer his injuries to his heart,	
And needy nothing trimmed in jollity,	
And never ask'd for restitution.	
And never mayst thou come Lysander near!	
And never shall have length of life enough	
And never shall it more be gracious.	
And never yet could frame my will to it;	
And none but tyrants use it cruelly.	
And none but women left to wail the dead.	
And none of them been worn; and, for a name,	
And none serve with him but constrained things	
And not King Richard; thou most beauteous inn,	
And not alone in habit and device,	
And not betray thy treason with a blush?	
And not have spoke on't. In me 'tis villainy:	
And not have tide of an earldom here.	
And not obedient to his honest will,	
And not the very King. I have two boys	
And now 'tis far too huge to be blown out	
And now Ventidius is wealthy too,	
And now no more ado, brave Burgundy,	
And now what rests but that we spend the time	
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?	
And of our labours thou shalt reap the gain.	
And of your choice, these reverend fathers-men	
And often did beguile her of her tears	
And on his grave-stone this insculpture, which	
And on it said a century of prayers,	
And on that day at noon whereon he says	
And on the ragged stones beat forth our souls,	
And on the winking of authority	
And on your finger in the night I'll put	
And once again proclaim us King of England.	
And our air shakes them passing scornfully;	
And our dear love lose name of single one,	
And our oppression hath made up this league.	
And out of doubt you do me now more wrong	
And out of my dear love I'll give thee more	
And over the chair of state, where now he sits,	
And over-joy of heart doth minister.	
And overlook their grafters?	
And paint your face, and use you like a fool.	
And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.	
And pardon us the interruption	
And part in just proportion our small power.	
And pay no worship to the garish sun.	
And pierce the inmost centre of the earth;	
And plighter of high hearts! O that I were	
And point by point the treasons of his master	
And pray God's blessing into thy attempt.	
And prays that you will hie you home to dinner.	
And prize me at her worth. In my true heart	
And prove a deadly bloodshed but a jest,	
And prove it in thy feeling. Heaven mend all!	
And put my eyeballs in thy vaulty brows,	
And put you in the catalogue of those	
And quit the house on purpose, that their punishment	
And rails, and swears, and rates, that she, poor soul,	
And rank me with the barbarous multitudes.	
And rather choose to hide them in a net	
And reason coldly of your grievances,	
And reason flies the object of all harm.	
And recks not his own rede.	
And rouse from sleep that fell anatomy	
And rush'd into the bowels of the battle.	
And sandy-bottom'd Severn have I sent him	
And sav'd the treacherous labour of your son.	
And save me so much talking.	
And say I am Revenge, sent from below	
And say poor Margaret was a prophetess!	
And say you would present her at the leet,	
And sear up my embracements from a next	
And seeing ignorance is the curse of God,	
And send for money for 'em.	
And send him word by me which way you go.	
And send to darkness all that stop me. Come,	
And sends the poor well pleased from my gate.	
And set me on the proof. So the gods bless me,	
And set thee by Jove's side. Yet come a little.	
And shall I fly? O, if you love my mother,	
And she is fair and, fairer than that word,	
And she, mistaken, seems to dote on me.	
And shortly comes to harvest.	
And show no sign of fear.	
And show of love as I was wont to have;	
And show'd how well you love your Prince and country.	
And shudd'ring fear, and green-ey'd jealousy!	
And shut the gates for safety of ourselves,	
And sigh'd my English breath in foreign clouds,	
And sleep an act or two; but those, we fear,	
And so I am awake. Poor wretches, that depend	
And so I was, which plainly signified	
And so dies my revenge.	
And so he'll die; and, rising so again,	
And so his peers, upon this evidence,	
And so in progress to be hatch'd and born-	
And so in this, to bear me down with braves.	
And so may you; for a light heart lives long.	
And so my patent back again is swerving.	
And so of you, beauteous and lovely youth,	
And so shall mine, before you touch the meat.	
And so, espous'd to death, with blood he seal'd	
And so, from hour to hour, we ripe and ripe,	
And so, my Lord Protector, see them guarded	
And sold their bodies for their country's benefit,	
And some are yet ungotten and unborn	
And something spoke in choler, ill and hasty;	
And sometime make the drink to bear no barm,	
And stand between her back, sir, and the fire,	
And stand between two churchmen, good my lord;	
And stemming it with hearts of controversy.	
And stop the rising of blood-sucking sighs,	
And stops her pipe in growth of riper days:	
And straight disclaim their tongues? What are your offices?	
And such a counterpart shall fame his wit,	
And such a daughter,	
And such an instrument I was to use.	
And such barren plants are set before us that we thankful should	
And suits well for a servant with my fortunes.	
And summer's green all girded up in sheaves	
And summon him to marriage. Now he goes,	
And sure I am two men there are not living	
And swear with me- as, with the woeful fere	
And tame the savage spirit of wild war,	
And tapers burn so bright, and everything	
And tarry for the comfort of the day.	
And tell him privily of our intent.	
And tell them 'tis the Queen and her allies	
And that dear saint which then I weeping follow'd-	
And that he is a bastard, not thy son.	
And that same prayer doth teach us all to render	
And that same word even now cries out on us.	
And that shall Claudio know; so shall the Prince,	
And that shall lend a kind of easiness	
And that she hath all courtly parts more exquisite	
And that small model of the barren earth	
And that the French were almost ten to one,	
And that the people of this blessed land	
And that thou art so, there I throw my gage,	
And that would woo her. Upon this hint I spake:	
And that you look'd for him this day in Padua.	
And that, by great injunctions, I am bound	
And that, my state being gall'd with my expense,	
And the ass more captain than the lion; the fellow	
And the gods yield you for't!	
And the issue there create	
And the most merciless that e'er was heard of!	
And the rich East to boot.	
And the will dotes that is attributive	
And then I ran away to call the watch.	
And then all this thou seest is but a clod	
And then away to Venice to your friend;	
And then it was when the unhappy King	
And then return and sleep within mine inn;	
And then to Calais; and to England then;	
And then we'll try what these dastard Frenchmen dare.	
And then will I be general of your woes	
And then, sir, would he gripe and wring my hand,	
And there did seem in him a kind of joy	
And there they fly or die, like scaled sculls	
And there they hull, expecting but the aid	
And therefore little shall I grace my cause	
And therefore lost that title of respect	
And therefore take the present time,	
And therefore tell her I return great thanks	
And therein reverenc'd for their lawful king.	
And therein show'd fike enemies.	
And thereto add such reasons of your own	
And these dread curses, like the sun 'gainst glass,	
And they are rich, and ransom all ill deeds.	
And they can well on horseback; but this gallant	
And they have wish'd that Lucius were their emperor.	
And they shall feel the vengeance of my wrath.	
And they thy glory through my grief will show.	
And they'll seem glorious.	
And this distilled liquor drink thou off;	
And this is he was his adopted heir.	
And this my hand, against my self uprear,	
And this shall seem, as partly 'tis, their own,	
And this thy son's blood cleaving to my blade	
And those thy fears might have wrought fears in me.	
And thou art all my child. Towards Florence is he?	
And thou art twice her love.	
And thou away, the very birds are mute.	
And thou shalt bear it; wilt thou, Silvius?	
And thou shalt find that I exceed my sex.	
And thou shouldst tow me after. O'er my spirit	
And thou that art his mate make boot of this;	
And thou thyself a shearman, art thou not?	
And thou with all pleas'd, that hast an achiev'd.	
And though I make this marriage for my peace,	
And though he came our enemy, remember	
And though you know my inwardness and love	
And though you think me poor, I am the man	
And threw it towards thy land. The sea receiv'd it;	
And thus I prophesy, that many a thousand	
And thus still doing, thus he pass'd along.	
And till she stoop she must not be full-gorg'd,	
And to be doubted that your Moor and you	
And to be talk'd with in sincerity,	
And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss.	
And to suppose her chaste! No, let me know,	
And to that woman, when she has done most,	
And to thy worth will add right worthy gains.	
And told'st me of a mistress and a dinner;	
And torture him with grievous ling'ring death.	
And touch'd with choler, hot as gunpowder,	
And try the argument of hearts by borrowing,	
And try your penitence, if it be sound	
And turn preordinance and first decree	
And twenty more such names and men as these,	
And two Northumberlands- two braver men	
And under-honest, in self-assumption greater	
And venture maidenhead for 't; and so would you,	
And vows to crown himself in Westminster.	
And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,	
And wand'red hither to an obscure plot,	
And wash him fresh again with true-love tears.	
And waste for churlish winter's tyranny.	
And wat'ry death-bed for him. He may win;	
And watch our vantage in this business;	
And we alive that liv'd? Fly, damned baseness,	
And we are govern'd with our mothers' spirits;	
And we be lords and rulers over Rouen;	
And we for fear compell'd to shut our shops.	
And we must earn therefore.	
And we their hands.	
And wear a golden sorrow.	
And wear it as a favour; and with that	
And wear it in my heart. Why, then, be sad;	
And welcome all. Although the cheer be poor,	
And well am like to do, for I perceive	
And what is mine my love shall render him;	
And what love can do, that dares love attempt.	
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?	
And what say you to this? Percy, Northumberland,	
And what strength I have's mine own,	
And whatsoever cunning fiend it was	
And when I send for you, come hither mask'd.	
And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer,	
And when he please to make commotion,	
And when he sleeps will she do what she list.	
And when in music we have spent an hour,	
And when the dusky sky began to rob	
And when the rage allays, the rain begins.	
And where th' offence is let the great axe fall.	
And where two raging fires meet together,	
And where's that valiant crook-back prodigy,	
And wherefore should they, since that I myself	
And whispers to his pillow, as to him,	
And who abstains from meat that is not gaunt?	
And who can sever love from charity?	
And why dost thou deny the bag of gold?	
And will he not come again?	
And will no doubt be found.	
And will not promise her to any man	
And will not temporize with my entreaties;	
And will to France, hoping the consequence	
And will with all expedience charge on us.	
And wilt thou have a reason for this coil?	
And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof;	
And with a sudden re-enforcement struck	
And with his former title greet Macbeth.	
And with his head over his shoulder turn'd	
And with his presence grace impiety,	
And with my sword I'll keep this door safe.	
And with our surfeiting and wanton hours	
And with presented nakedness outface	
And with such sober and unnoted passion	
And with these boys mine honour thou hast wounded.	
And with thy lips keep in my soul a while!	
And with your blood and it I'll make a paste;	
And without trial fell; God's peace be with him!	
And woo your own destruction.	
And worth it, with addition! But, fair soul,	
And would conceive for what I gave the ring,	
And would have kept so long as breath did last.	
And would not take their part? Sinful Macduff,	
And yet I am sure you are not satisfied	
And yet I wish but for the thing I have.	
And yet as heavy as my weight should be.	
And yet not so, for with a kiss 'twas made.	
And yet she is inferior to none.	
And yet so fast asleep.	
And yet too good to be your concubine.	
And yet would herein others' eyes were worse.	
And yet your fair discourse hath been as sugar,	
And yet, in substance and authority,	
And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!	
And you were Isabel! Should it then be thus?	
And you within it. If he fail of that,	
And you, Prince Dauphin, with all swift dispatch,	
And your affection not gone forth, I'll make you	
And, Captain, you must needs be friends with him.	
And, Clarence, now then it is more than needful	
And, after many length'ned hours of grief,	
And, as you trip, still pinch him to your time.	
And, being a woman, I will not be slack	
And, but for Owen Glendower, had been king,	
And, ere our coming, see thou shake the bags	
And, for I should not deal in her soft laws,	
And, for the morning now is something worn,	
And, for the most, become much more the better	
And, for thy humor, I will stay at home.	
And, if I fail not in my deep intent,	
And, if not so, how should I wrong a brother?	
And, in conclusion,	
And, in the fleshment of this dread exploit,	
And, in the last repeating, troublesome,	
And, in the publication, make no strain	
And, in the spiced Indian air, by night,	
And, madam, if my uncle Marcus go,	
And, madam, these for you; from whom I know not.	
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up;	
And, mutually participate, did minister	
And, my most noble friends, I pray you all	
And, nephew, challeng'd you to single fight.	
And, though he in a fertile climate dwell,	
And, though mine enemy, restor'd again	
And, to add greater honours to his age	
And, to be short, for not appearance and	
And, to deal plainly,	
And, to prevent the worst, Sir Michael, speed.	
And, to that dauntless temper of his mind,	
And, to the advantage, I being here took't up.	
And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.	
And, when he says he is, say that he dreams,	
And, when your honours mean to solemnize	
Angry that his prescriptions are not kept	
Anne thy wife	
Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb;	
Another alarum. The Volsces fly, and MARCIUS follows	
Another of his fathom they have none	
Another part of the Park	
Another part of the field	
Another part of the field	
Another part of the field of battle	
Another part of the plain	
Another way so high a hope, that even	
Another with his finger and his thumb	
Answer mere nature- bid them flatter thee.	
Answer, and think upon this business.	
Answering the letter of the oracle,	
Ant. At a word, I am not.	
Ant. In faith, she's too curst.	
Ant. [to Hero] Well, niece, I trust you will be rul'd by your	
Anticipating time with starting courage.	
Any exploit worthy the name of honor.	
Anything on him; for he hath a witchcraft	
Apoth. My poverty but not my will consents.	
Appear like mice; and yond tall anchoring bark,	
Appear not like a guest.	
Appear thus to us?	
Appears before them and with solemn march	
April when they woo, December when they wed: maids are May when	
Arch. I hope no less, yet needful 'tis to fear;	
Are all unfolded; wherein he appears	
Are come to have some conference with his Grace.	
Are confident against the world in arms.	
Are crack'd in pieces by malignant death,	
Are in the field. A mighty strength they carry.	
Are in three heads: one power against the French,	
Are led so grossly by this meddling priest,	
Are lethargied- Ha! waking? 'Tis not so!	
Are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems	
Are many simples operative, whose power	
Are near at hand. The rest the paper tells. [Gives a letter]	
Are not thine own so proper as to waste	
Are not within the leaf of pity writ,	
Are nurs'd by baseness. Thou 'rt by no means valiant;	
Are often welcomest when they are gone.	
Are pleas'd to breed out your inheritors.	
Are punish'd with. The King must take it ill	
Are shuffl'd off with such uncurrent pay;	
Are stol'n away and fled, which puts upon them	
Are they not but in Britain? I' th' world's volume	
Are to be fear'd. Have you a precedent	
Are words and poor conditions, but unseal'd-	
Are you not stronger than you were?	
Are you so desperate grown to threat your friends?	
Are yours- my lord's. I give them with this ring,	
Arise Sir Richard and Plantagenet.	
Arise, and say how thou cam'st here.	
Armado a th' t'one side- O, a most dainty man!	
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,	
Array'd in flames, like to the prince of fiends,	
Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.	
Art then forsaken, as thou went'st forlorn!	
Art thou here yet?	
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'	
As 'tis reported, so.	
As Cassius' legions are by Antony.	
As I am glad I have not, though not to have it	
As I before imparted to your worship,	
As I by friends am well advertised,	
As I can change these poor accoutrements,	
As I do know the consul's worthiness,	
As I do long and wish to be a subject.	
As I have read, laid claim unto the crown;	
As I kiss thee. Nay, do not snatch it from me;	
As I perceive she does. There's something in't	
As I wish you were.	
As Neptune's park, ribb'd and pal'd in	
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;	
As a false favourite doth his prince's name,	
As all the world- why he's a man of wax.	
As all think, for this business.	
As an unperfect actor on the stage,	
As any mother's child, though not so bright	
As are of better person than myself,	
As are our wretches fett'red in our prisons;	
As begging hermits in their holy prayers.	
As bird doth sing on bough.	
As breath into the wind. Would they had stay'd!	
As bring me to the sight of Isabella,	
As dear to me as are the ruddy drops	
As doth a lion in a herd of neat;	
As doth import you.	
As doubtful whether what I see be true,	
As every alien pen hath got my use,	
As far as Belmont.	
As flies to wanton boys are we to th' gods.	
As for the brat of this accursed duke,	
As for your spiteful false objections,	
As fox to lamb, or wolf to heifer's calf,	
As from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites	
As full as thy report?	
As gravity's revolt to wantonness.	
As great Alcides' shows upon an ass;	
As harbingers preceding still the fates	
As he hath follow'd you, with all despite;	
As he made semblance of his duty, would	
As he stood by whilst I, his forlorn duchess,	
As honest madam's issue? Why brand they us	
As honor, love, obedience, troops of friends,	
As hot as Perseus, spur thy Phrygian steed,	
As humorous as winter, and as sudden	
As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder	
As if he mock'd himself and scorn'd his spirit	
As if his foot were on brave Hector's breast,	
As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds,	
As if the vicar meant to cozen him.	
As if the world should cleave, and that slain men	
As if you were a god, to punish; not	
As ignorant as dirt! Thou hast done a deed-	
As in a vault, an ancient receptacle	
As in this glorious and well-foughten field	
As is delivered to your Majesty.	
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.	
As letting her pass so; had I spoke with her,	
As loud as thine, rattle the welkin's ear	
As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,	
As maids call medlars when they laugh alone.	
As man's ingratitude;	
As may be halloa'd in thy treacherous ear	
As mild and gentle as the cradle-babe	
As misers do by beggars-neither gave to me	
As more at large your Grace shall understand.	
As mountain winds; but then exactly do	
As much as would maintain, to the King's honour,	
As my soul prompts it. Spirit, fine spirit! I'll free thee	
As my true service shall deserve your love.	
As now again to snatch our palm from palm,	
As on a mountain-top the cedar shows,	
As once Europa did at lusty Jove	
As one unworthy all the former favours	
As poisonous-tongu'd as handed- hath prevail'd	
As shall be prov'd upon you.	
As shall revenge his death before I stir.	
As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.	
As that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea,	
As the perfumed tincture of the roses,	
As the recomforted through th' gates. Why, hark you!	
As theirs, so mine; and all be as it is.	
As then the messenger-	
As they contend with thee in courtesy.	
As they had seen me with these hangman's hands.	
As they themselves would owe them.	
As this hath made me. Who was he that said	
As thou being mine, mine is thy good report.	
As thou didst leave it.	
As though she bid me stay by her a week;	
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,	
As thy eye-beams, when their fresh rays have smote	
As to Jove's statue, and the commons made	
As to be cast forth in the common air,	
As to have ask'd him pardon. Let this fellow	
As to the Tower I thought-I would have play'd	
As to throw out our eyes for brave Othello,	
As two yoke-devils sworn to either's purpose,	
As unrelenting flint to drops of rain.	
As when a giant dies.	
As with the meat, some undeserved fault	
As would- but that they dare not- take our parts.	
As yet not come to life, who in their seeds	
As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.	
As you from crimes would pardon'd be,	
As you have done 'gainst me. There is my hand.	
As you must needs, for you all clapp'd your hands,	
As you must needs, for you all cried 'Go, go'-	
As you shall deem yourself lodg'd in my heart,	
As you that thus abuse me.	
As you threw caps up will he tumble down,	
As you wish Christian peace to souls departed,	
As you yourself have forg'd against yourself	
As yours was put into you, ever casts	
As, after some oration fairly spoke	
As, let 'em have their rights, they are ever forward-	
As-though, on thinking, on no thought I think-	
Ask God for temp'rance; that's th' appliance only	
Ask him his name; and orderly proceed	
Assisted by that most disloyal traitor	
Assume the port of Mars; and at his heels,	
At Bristol I expect my soldiers;	
At Priam's royal table do I sit;	
At a crack'd drachma! Cushions, leaden spoons,	
At all a friend to truth.	
At all times to your will conformable,	
At her life's rate.	
At seventeen years many their fortunes seek,	
At the port, lord, I'll give her to thy hand,	
Athens. QUINCE'S house	
Attend his further pleasure.	
Attend upon Cominius to these wars.	
Attended by my men. I will make bold	
Attending but the signal to begin.	
Avaunt, you cullions!                 [Driving them forward]	
Awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth;	
Away from light steals home my heavy son	
Away, and for our flight.	
Away, and glister like the god of war	
Ay, and since too, murthers have been perform'd	
BAGOT. My Lord Aumerle, I know your daring tongue	
BALTHASAR. Madam, I go with all convenient speed.         Exit	
BANQUO. How far is't call'd to Forres? What are these	
BAPTISTA. And I to sound the depth of this knavery.       Exit	
BAPTISTA. And yet you halt not.	
BAPTISTA. Ay, that Petruchio came.	
BAPTISTA. I must confess your offer is the best;	
BAPTISTA. Now, in good sadness, son Petruchio,	
BAPTISTA. O, O, Petruchio! Tranio hits you now.	
BAPTISTA. Son, I'll be your half Bianca comes.	
BAPTISTA. Well mayst thou woo, and happy be thy speed	
BARDOLPH. An I might see you there, Davy!	
BARDOLPH. Sir, a word with you. I have three pound to free Mouldy	
BARDOLPH. Why, sir, for my part, I say the gentleman had	
BARDOLPH. Yea, my lord.	
BARNARDINE, a dissolute prisoner	
BARNARDINE. You rogue, I have been drinking all night; I am not	
BASSANIO. Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing, more than	
BASSANIO. I thank you, madam; give welcome to my friend.	
BASSANIO. If it please you to dine with us.	
BASSANIO. In my school-days, when I had lost one shaft,	
BASSANIO. Nay, but hear me.	
BASSANIO. Our feast shall be much honoured in your marriage.	
BASSANIO. Shylock, do you hear?	
BASSANIO. We should hold day with the Antipodes,	
BASSANIO. Your answer to that.	
BASSET, of the Red Rose or Lancaster faction	
BASSIANUS. Lavinia, how say you?	
BASSIANUS. The King my brother shall have notice of this.	
BASTARD. 'Tis true-to hurt his master, no man else.	
BASTARD. Because he hath a half-face, like my father.	
BASTARD. Bell, book, and candle, shall not drive me back,	
BASTARD. Hear the crier.	
BASTARD. Hew them to pieces, hack their bones asunder,	
BASTARD. I Will seek them out.	
BASTARD. I know not why, except to get the land.	
BASTARD. O, I am scalded with my violent motion	
BASTARD. Search out thy wit for secret policies,	
BASTARD. They found him dead, and cast into the streets,	
BASTARD. Whate'er you think, good words, I think, were best.	
BASTARD. Will't not be?	
BASTARD. Your sword is bright, sir; put it up again.	
BEDFORD. He is as full of valour as of kindness;	
BEDFORD. The day begins to break, and night is fled	
BELARIUS. Here's a few flowers; but 'bout midnight, more.	
BELARIUS. Is not this boy reviv'd from death?	
BELARIUS. It is great morning. Come, away! Who's there?	
BELARIUS. My boys,	
BELARIUS. My ingenious instrument!	
BELARIUS. No single soul	
BELARIUS. O melancholy!	
BELARIUS. Whither bound?	
BELARIUS. [Aside] O noble strain!	
BEROWNE. Ay, if 'a have no more man's blood in his belly than will	
BEROWNE. Did not I dance with you in Brabant once?	
BEROWNE. Hide thy head, Achilles; here comes Hector in arms.	
BEROWNE. How much is it?	
BEROWNE. I am a fool, and full of poverty.	
BEROWNE. I'll lay my head to any good man's hat	
BEROWNE. Necessity will make us all forsworn	
BEROWNE. No, my good lord; I have sworn to stay with you;	
BEROWNE. O, if the streets were paved with thine eyes,	
BEROWNE. One drunkard loves another of the name.	
BEROWNE. Pompey is moved. More Ates, more Ates! Stir them on! stir	
BEROWNE. Stay, slave; I must employ thee.	
BEROWNE. Studies my lady? Mistress, look on me;	
BEROWNE. Take away the conqueror, take away Alisander.	
BEROWNE. This, fellow. What wouldst?	
BEROWNE. WOrthies away; the scene begins to cloud.	
BEROWNE. You lie, you are not he.	
BEROWNE. Your wit 's too hot, it speeds too fast, 'twill tire.	
BERTRAM. But I con him no thanks for't in the nature he delivers it.	
BERTRAM. For this description of thine honesty? A pox upon him! For	
BERTRAM. Go with me to my chamber and advise me.	
BERTRAM. Good morrow, noble Captain.	
BERTRAM. Here, take my ring;	
BERTRAM. I'll lend it thee, my dear, but have no power	
BERTRAM. My wife, my liege! I shall beseech your Highness,	
BIANCA. Alas, he faints! O Cassio, Cassio, Cassio!	
BIANCA. God give him joy!	
BIONDELLO. His daughter is to be brought by you to the supper.	
BIONDELLO. I have seen them in the church together. God send 'em	
BLANCH. O, well did he become that lion's robe	
BLUNT	
BOATSWAIN. I pray now, keep below.	
BOLINGBROKE My gracious uncle, let me know my fault;	
BOLINGBROKE. Are you contented to resign the crown?	
BOLINGBROKE. Call forth Bagot.	
BOLINGBROKE. Good aunt, stand up.	
BOLINGBROKE. Lord Marshal, let me kiss my sovereign's hand,	
BOLINGBROKE. You shall.	
BONA. Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,	
BOTH TRIBUNES. Well, sir.	
BOTTOM. [Sings]	
BOY                               A HERALD	
BOY. Father, I know; and oft have shot at them,	
BOY. Mine host Pistol, you must come to my master; and your	
BOY. No, sir; he stays for you to conduct him thither.	
BOY. Would I were in an alehouse in London! I wouid give all my	
BOYET. And every jest but a word.	
BOYET. Beauties no richer than rich taffeta.	
BOYET. Here comes a member of the commonwealth.	
BOYET. I will; and so will she, I know, my lord.          Exit	
BOYET. Prepare, madam, prepare!	
BOYET. True, and it was enjoined him in Rome for want of linen;	
BOYET. True; out indeed.	
BOYET. Why, all his behaviours did make their retire	
BRABANTIO.            A maiden never bold,	
BRABANTIO. Not I. What are you?	
BRABANTIO. So let the Turk of Cyprus us beguile;	
BRABANTIO. This thou shalt answer; I know thee, Roderigo.	
BRUTUS take their places by themselves.	
BRUTUS. 'Tis good. Go to the gate, somebody knocks.	
BRUTUS. And topping all others in boasting.	
BRUTUS. Being mov'd, he will not spare to gird the gods.	
BRUTUS. By the eighth hour. Is that the utter most?	
BRUTUS. Come, we'll inform them	
BRUTUS. He is welcome hither.	
BRUTUS. He is welcome too.	
BRUTUS. I say you are not.	
BRUTUS. I talk of that that know it.	
BRUTUS. Let them go on;	
BRUTUS. No, not an oath. If not the face of men,	
BRUTUS. Nothing, Messala.	
BRUTUS. Now, as you are a Roman, tell me true.	
BRUTUS. O Antony, beg not your death of us!	
BRUTUS. Sir, I hope	
BRUTUS. Sit thee down, Clitus. Slaying is the word:	
BRUTUS. Sleep again, Lucius. Sirrah Claudio!	
BRUTUS. The deep of night is crept upon our talk,	
BRUTUS. The exhalations whizzing in the air	
BRUTUS. There's no more to be said, but he is banish'd,	
BRUTUS. Under your pardon. You must note beside	
BRUTUS. Was the crown offered him thrice?	
BRUTUS. Well, well, we'll leave you.	
BRUTUS. What a blunt fellow is this grown to be!	
BRUTUS. You shall, Mark Antony.	
BUCKINGHAM. All in this presence are thy betters, Warwick.	
BUCKINGHAM. Even that, I hope, which pleaseth God above,	
BUCKINGHAM. I do, my lord, but long I cannot stay there;	
BUCKINGHAM. Know then, it is your fault that you resign	
BUCKINGHAM. Look I so pale, Lord Dorset, as the rest?	
BUCKINGHAM. My hair doth stand an end to hear her curses.	
BUCKINGHAM. My lord, this argues conscience in your	
BUCKINGHAM. Nay, Sir Nicholas,	
BUCKINGHAM. Peace, peace, for shame, if not for charity!	
BUCKINGHAM. Thy cruelty in execution	
BUCKINGHAM. To-morrow, then, we will attend your Grace;	
BUCKINGHAM. We wait upon your Grace.                    Exeunt	
BUCKINGHAM. What, my gracious lord?	
BUCKINGHAM. Why the devil,	
BUCKINGHAM. Your Grace shall give me leave, my Lord of York,	
BULLCALF. Good Master Corporate Bardolph, stand my friend; and	
BURGUNDY. Is she not apt?	
BURGUNDY. The King hath heard them; to the which as yet	
BUSHY. Well, we may meet again.	
Back do I toss those treasons to thy head;	
Bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly;	
Bal. Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.	
Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course,	
Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from this city;	
Bardolph, be blithe; Nym, rouse thy vaunting veins;	
Bareheaded, lower than his proud steed's neck,	
Be angry and dispatch. O couldst thou speak,	
Be any further moved. What you have said	
Be barr'd his entrance here.	
Be brooch'd with me. If knife, drugs, serpents, have	
Be buckled with. The over daring Talbot	
Be by my friends in Spain advis'd, whose counsel	
Be cross'd with slowness! Labour be his meed!           Exit	
Be every man himself?	
Be free and healthful- why so tart a favour	
Be free as is the wind. Deliver him, Titus.	
Be grafted to your relish. Yet welcome, warriors.	
Be great in act, as you have been in thought;	
Be heap'd like mine, and that thy skill be more	
Be held by you denials. Do not bid me	
Be in their flowing cups freshly rememb'red.	
Be it ounce, or cat, or bear,	
Be merry, be merry.	
Be not afraid, good youth; I will not have you;	
Be not afraid, though you do see me weapon'd;	
Be not offended, nature's miracle,	
Be ready to direct these home alarms.                 Exeunt	
Be rough and razorable; she that from whom	
Be scorned, like old men of less truth than tongue,	
Be sure of it. Give me the ocular proof;	
Be these the wretches that we play'd at dice for?	
Be this sweet Helen's knell. And now forget her.	
Be those the garments?	
Be thou reveng'd on men, and let me live.	
Be thou the tenth Muse, ten times more in worth	
Be yet my nephew. My brother hath a daughter,	
Be you contented, wearing now the garland,	
Be't as our gods will have't! It only stands	
Bear thine eyes straight, though thy proud heart go wide.	
Bear thou my hand, sweet wench, between thy teeth.	
Bearing the King in my behalf along;	
Bearing the wanton burden of the prime,	
Bearing their own misfortunes on the back	
Bears all down with her brain; and this her son	
Beat at this gate that let thy folly in  [Strikes his head.]	
Beat loud the tambourines, let the trumpets blow,	
Beat. 'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin; 'tis time you were ready.	
Beat. Ah, how much might the man deserve of me that would right	
Beat. I am sure you know him well enough.	
Beat. I'll tell thee what, Prince: a college of wit-crackers cannot	
Beat. It appears not in this confession. There's not one wise man	
Beat. Kill Claudio.	
Beat. No, truly, but in friendly recompense.	
Beat. Sweet Hero! she is wrong'd, she is sland'red, she is undone.	
Beat. That I was disdainful, and that I had my good wit out of the	
Beat. Very easily possible. He wears his faith but as the fashion	
Beat. What means the fool, trow?	
Beat. What pace is this that thy tongue keeps?	
Beat. You always end with a jade's trick. I know you of old.	
Beat. You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it. He is a	
Beats, as of flesh and blood; and, since I saw thee,	
Beauteous and swift, the minions of their race,	
Beauteous thou art, therefore to be assailed.	
Because he married me before to Romeo?	
Because it is an enemy to thee.	
Because thou art a woman and disclaim'st	
Because we see it; but what we do not see	
Because your speech hath none that tells him so?	
Become a deluge, overflow'd and drown'd;	
Become thy great birth, nor deserve a crown.	
Becomes a fear, as being o'erpow'r'd. Therefore	
Becomes as aged, and doth beg the alms	
Becomes his captain's captain; and ambition,	
Been less, and so more equal ballasting	
Before Angiers	
Before Gloucester's Castle; Kent in the stocks.	
Before Harfleur	
Before I make reply to aught you say.	
Before I positively speak in this.	
Before I'll see the crown so foul misplac'd.	
Before LORD HASTING'S house	
Before Macbeth's castle.  Hautboys and torches.	
Before Orleans	
Before PAGE'S house	
Before he go to bed. I'll take my leave.	
Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound,	
Before the expiration of thy time,	
Before the house of ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS	
Before the time I did Lysander see,	
Before thy hour be ripe? O foolish youth!	
Before thy sovereign and thy lawful king?	
Before we reckon with your several loves	
Before you answer Warwick. His demand	
Before you find it other. All the regions	
Before you punish him, where he heard this,	
Beggar the estimation which you priz'd	
Beggared of blood to blush through lively veins,	
Beggars that come unto my father's door	
Beginning nor supplyment.	
Begins his golden progress in the East.	
Begins to swell, and the approaching tide	
Beguiles the truer office of mine eyes?	
Behind the arras hearing something stir,	
Behold her well; I pray you, look upon her.	
Behold the window of my heart, mine eye,	
Behold this maid. All corners else o' th' earth	
Behold this pattern of thy butcheries.	
Behold yourself so by a son disdain'd;	
Being a bark to brook no mighty sea-	
Being an obstruct 'tween his lust and him.	
Being an ordinary inundation;	
Being but the second generation	
Being mechanical, you ought not walk	
Being wrong'd as we are by this peevish town,	
Being, as it is, much spoke of.	
Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.	
Bells in your parlors, wildcats in your kitchens,	
Belmont. PORTIA's house	
Ben. At this same ancient feast of Capulet's	
Ben. Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in	
Ben. Good morrow, cousin.	
Ben. Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun	
Ben. Romeo will answer it.	
Bene. Come, will you go with me?	
Bene. Count Claudio?	
Bene. Friar, I must entreat your pains, I think.	
Bene. Gallants, I am not as I have been.	
Bene. I do love nothing in the world so well as you. Is not that	
Bene. Not now.	
Bene. O, she misus'd me past the endurance of a block! An oak but	
Bene. Pray thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at my hands	
Bene. Tarry, sweet Beatrice.	
Bene. This can be no trick. The conference was sadly borne; they	
Bene. What offence, sweet Beatrice?	
Bene. When I know the gentleman, I'll tell him what you say.	
Bene. Yea, and a case to put it into. But speak you this with a sad	
Beneath the fall I have. [To SELEUCUS] Prithee go hence;	
Ber. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.	
Besides these, other bars he lays before me,	
Besides yourself, to like of. But I prattle	
Besides, Antonio certified the Duke	
Best draw my sword; and if mine enemy	
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple	
Bestride our downfall'n birthdom. Each new morn	
Between that royal field of Shrewsbury	
Between the acting of a dreadful thing	
Between the promise of his greener days	
Between the two camps	
Between two blades, which bears the better temper;	
Between us and the Emperor, the Queen's great nephew,	
Between you I shall have a holy head.	
Bianca's grief.	
Bifold authority! where reason can revolt	
Bishop of Winchester. But know I come not	
Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me	
Bleeding to Rome, bearing his valiant sons	
Bold in the quarrel's right, rous'd to th' encounter,	
Bold of your worthiness, we single you	
Bora. Being entertain'd for a perfumer, as I was smoking a musty	
Bora. Yea, even I alone.	
Bora. Yea, my lord; but I can cross it.	
Bordeaux.	
Bore the commission of my place and person,	
Bosworth Field	
Both by the Syracusians and ourselves,	
Both for your honour better and your cause;	
Both meet to hear and answer such high things.	
Both merits pois'd, each weighs nor less nor more;	
Both to defend himself, and to approve	
Both. Arm'd, my lord.	
Boyet, you can produce acquittances	
Boys, apes, braggarts, jacks, milksops!	
Brabantio appears above, at a window.	
Brave me upon the watch, whereon it came	
Bring him our purposes; and so farewell.	
Bring in thy ranks, but leave without thy rage;	
Bring me word how tall she is.- Pity me, Charmian,	
Britain. A field of battle between the British and Roman camps	
Britain. IMOGEN'S bedchamber in CYMBELINE'S palace; a trunk in one corner	
Britain. The garden of CYMBELINE'S palace	
Britain. The palace	
Broken his staff of office, and dispers'd	
Brook, that you have cozen'd of money, to whom you	
Brook-only for a jest.	
Brought hither Henry Hereford, thy bold son,	
Brutus and Caesar: what should be in that "Caesar"?	
Brutus had rather be a villager	
Brutus is noble, wise, valiant, and honest;	
Brutus' tent.	
Brutus, my country's friend; know me for Brutus!       Exit.	
Buckingham,	
Builds in the weather on the outward wall,	
Bur. Pardon me, royal sir.	
Bury St. Edmunds. A room of state	
But Brutus says he was ambitious,	
But God be thanked for prevention,	
But I and Harry Monmouth! Tell me, tell me,	
But I bethink me what a weary way	
But I do wash his name out of my blood,	
But I must needs to th' Tower, my lords?	
But I pray, sir, why am I beaten?	
But I will delve one yard below their mines	
But I will watch you from such watching now.	
But Margaret, that is daughter to a king?	
But O, what damned minutes tells he o'er	
But Pandarus-O gods, how do you plague me!	
But Peace puts forth her olive everywhere.	
But all hoods make not monks.	
But all in vain; they had no heart to fight,	
But are you not ashamed? Nay, are you not,	
But art thou not advis'd he took some care	
But basely yielded upon compromise	
But by reflection, by some other things.	
But by your voices will not so permit me;	
But cannot make my heart consent to take	
But cheer thy heart and be thou not dismay'd:	
But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger	
But come, my lord, let's away.	
But death doth front thee with apparent spoil	
But do not go with it!	
But do thy worst to steal thy self away,	
But even the mere necessities upon't.	
But falls into abatement and low price	
But fear the main intendment of the Scot,	
But fierce Andronicus would not relent.	
But find supply immediate. Get you gone;	
But float upon a wild and violent sea	
But for all this, thou shalt have as many dolours for thy	
But for his purpose in the coronation	
But for my sport and profit. I hate the Moor,	
But for supporting robbers, shall we now	
But for the handkerchief-	
But for your son- believe it, O, believe it!-	
But found no cure, the bath for my help lies,	
But freshly looks, and over-bears attaint	
But from Lord Angelo by special charge.	
But give thyself unto my sick desires,	
But go at once.	
But go we in, I pray thee, Jessica,	
But graciously to know I am no better.	
But great men tremble when the lion roars,	
But grow, like savages- as soldiers will,	
But hark! what new alarum is this same?	
But he and his shall know that justice lives	
But he that hath the steerage of my course	
But he's an arrant knave.	
But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.	
But here I am to speak what I do know.	
But here comes Antony.	
But his performance, as he is now, nothing.	
But honour thee, and will do till I die.	
But hope of orphans, and unfathered fruit,	
But how does it well? It does well to those that do ill. Now,	
But if thou strive, poor soul, what are thou then?	
But if you hold it fit, after the play	
But if you mind to hold your true obedience,	
But in a fainter kind- O, not like me,	
But in plain shock and even play of battle,	
But in the presence of the prioress;	
But in this extant moment, faith and troth,	
But is your Grace dead, my Lord of Somerset?	
But kiss; one kiss! Rubies unparagon'd,	
But let it be. Bring me to Antony.	
But let me see. Is this our foeman's face?	
But let my favours hide thy mangled face;	
But let my trial be mine own confession;	
But little vantage shall I reap thereby,	
But may imagine how the bird was dead,	
But mere implorators of unholy suits,	
But metal, Marcus, steel to the very back,	
But my five wits, nor my five senses can	
But my outside to behold.	
But ne'er till now his scandal of retire.	
But neither my good word nor princely favour;	
But no more deep will I endart mine eye	
But no more sights! -Where are these gentlemen?	
But not for that dream I on this strange course,	
But not intentively. I did consent,	
But not to tell of good, or evil luck,	
But now I am return'd and that war-thoughts	
But now I know thy mind: thou dost suspect	
But now her price is fall'n. Sir, there she stands.	
But now nor Lucius nor Lavinia lives	
But out of question 'tis Maria's hand.	
But out upon this half-fac'd fellowship!	
But prosper better than the Troyan did.	
But rather one that smiles and still invites	
But safer triumph is this funeral pomp	
But see his exequies fulfill'd in Rouen.	
But smother'd it within my panting bulk,	
But stay the very riping of the time;	
But tell me yet, dost thou not know my voice?	
But that he sees the Romans are but sheep.	
But that is in my thought, whose love to you	
But that they left me midst my enemies.	
But that to your sufficiency- as your worth is able-	
But that we enter, as into our dukedom?	
But that you shall sustain moe new disgraces	
But that's no fault of his. We must receive him	
But the free comfort which from thence he hears;	
But the plain devil and dissembling looks,	
But the strong base and building of my love	
But then Aufidius was within my view,	
But there remains a scruple in that too;	
But there's more in me than thou understand'st.	
But they did say their prayers and address'd them	
But they do square, that all their elves for fear	
But this our purpose now is twelvemonth old,	
But those that sought it I could wish more Christians.	
But thou art twice forsworn to me love swearing,	
But thou didst understand me by my signs,	
But thou the King. Woe doth the heavier sit	
But thou, to whom my jewels trifles are,	
But tie him not to be their bedfellow.	
But to be rough, unswayable, and free.	
But to be still hot summer's tanlings and	
But to confirm my curses. Could I meet 'em	
But to the matter that we have in hand:	
But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true	
But vows to every purpose must not hold.	
But was a petty servant to the state,	
But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed	
But weep to have, that which it fears to lose.	
But welcome, sweet Clarence; my daughter shall be thine.	
But what indeed is honest to be done.	
But what it is that is not yet known what,	
But what should go by water. Prithee, tonight	
But what's so blessed-fair that fears no blot?	
But when I meet you arm'd, as black defiance	
But when her humorous ladyship is by	
But when my glass shows me my self indeed	
But where they mean to sink ye. All good people,	
But who comes in such haste in riding-robes?	
But with a crafty madness keeps aloof	
But with a knave of common hire, a gondolier,	
But with a proud majestical high scorn	
But with an angry waiter of your hand	
But woe is me! you are so sick of late,	
But yet I call you servile ministers,	
But yet I'll go in hate, to feed upon	
But yet I'll make assurance double sure,	
But yet methinks my father's execution	
But you have power in me as in a kinsman.	
But your discretions better can persuade	
But, I beseech you, what's become of Katharine,	
But, I your daughter, he must be my brother?	
But, as it were, an after-dinner's sleep,	
But, ere they come, bid them o'er-read these letters	
But, for my will, my will is, your good will	
But, like a comet, I Was wond'red at;	
But, my good lord, I wot not by what power-	
But, since the affairs of men rest still incertain,	
But, soft, I see the goldsmith. Get thee gone;	
But, though slow, deadly?	
But, would you undertake another suit,	
But. Tut! I came not to hear this.	
By Dromio here, who came in haste for it.	
By God's fair ordinance conjoin together!	
By God, he shall not have a Scot of them!	
By a divine instinct men's minds mistrust	
By all the vows that ever men have broke,	
By desperate appliance are reliev'd,	
By external swelling; but she looks like sleep,	
By foul play, as thou say'st, were we heav'd thence;	
By giving love, your sorrow and my grief	
By heaven, I had rather coin my heart	
By her is poisoned; she hath confess'd it.	
By her that else will take the thing she begs	
By his best arrow, with the golden head,	
By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here	
By love's own sweet constraint, and will for ever	
By maggot pies and choughs and rooks brought forth	
By med'cine'life may be prolong'd, yet death	
By my so potent art. But this rough magic	
By nature made for murders and for rapes.	
By reason guide his execution.	
By rushing in their houses, bearing thence	
By seeming cold or careless of his will;	
By showing the worst first. Do not consent	
By sight of what I have, your noble company.	
By such invention as I can devise?	
By th' Bishop of Bayonne, then French ambassador,	
By th' law of arms thou wast not bound to answer	
By the dead and drowsy fire;	
By the misprizing of a maid too virtuous	
By the wrongs I suffer and the blows I bear.	
By this I shall perceive the commons' mind,	
By thy favour, sweet welkin, I must sigh in thy face;	
By virtue of that ring I take my cause	
By what you see them act. Is there not charms	
By your good favour, too sharp; men so noble,	
By your own counsel is suppress'd and kill'd.	
CADE. Away with him, away with him! He speaks Latin.	
CADE. But is not this braver? Let them kiss one another, for they	
CADE. By her he had two children at one birth.	
CADE. Come then, let's go fight with them. But first go and set	
CADE. I thank you, good people- there shall be no money; all shall	
CADE. Marry, presently.	
CADE. O monstrous!	
CADE. Up Fish Street! down Saint Magnus' Corner! Kill and knock	
CAESAR. Antony,	
CAESAR. Caesar shall forth: the things that threaten'd me	
CAESAR. Contemning Rome, he has done all this and more	
CAESAR. Go forth, Agrippa, and begin the fight.	
CAESAR. Ha! Who calls?	
CAESAR. I wrote to you	
CAESAR. Mark Antony shall say I am not well,	
CAESAR. Take your time.	
CAESAR. The time of universal peace is near.	
CAESAR. You may be pleas'd to catch at mine intent	
CAIUS. By gar, he is de coward Jack priest of de world; he is	
CAIUS. By gar, me dank you vor dat; by gar, I love you; and	
CAIUS. I pray you, let-a me speak a word with your ear.	
CAIUS. Vat is de clock, Jack?	
CAIUS. Villainy, take your rapier.	
CAIUS. Wherefore shall I be content-a?	
CALIBAN. Ay, lord; she will become thy bed, I warrant,	
CALIBAN. How does thy honour? Let me lick thy shoe.	
CALIBAN. I say, by sorcery he got this isle;	
CALIBAN. The dropsy drown this fool! What do you mean	
CALIBAN. Thou shalt be lord of it, and I'll serve thee.	
CALIBAN. What a pied ninny's this! Thou scurvy patch!	
CAMBRIDGE. So may your Highness, and yet punish too.	
CAMPEIUS. Your Grace must needs deserve an strangers' loves,	
CANIDIUS. Ay, and to wage this battle at Pharsalia,	
CANIDIUS. With news the time's with labour and throes forth	
CANTERBURY. Then hear me, gracious sovereign, and you peers,	
CAPHIS. Nay, good my lord-	
CAPTAIN. I do, my lord, and mean accordingly.           Exeunt	
CAPTAIN. Romans, make way. The good Andronicus,	
CAPUCIUS. Madam, the same-your servant.	
CARDINAL. And so, my Lord Protector, by this means	
CASCA,          conspirator against Caesar	
CASCA. Are not you moved, when all the sway of earth	
CASCA. Ay, he spoke Greek.	
CASCA. Ay, if I be alive, and your mind hold, and your dinner worth	
CASCA. Marry, before he fell down, when he perceived the common	
CASCA. Nay, an I tell you that, I'll ne'er look you i' the face	
CASCA. Speak, hands, for me!	
CASSANDRA, daughter to Priam, a prophetess	
CASSANDRA. O, farewell, dear Hector!	
CASSIO.                      See for the news.	
CASSIO.                  Yet, I beseech you,	
CASSIO. Ay, past all surgery.	
CASSIO. Dost thou prate, rogue?                   Strikes Roderigo.	
CASSIO. I have well approved it, sir. I drunk!	
CASSIO. Indeed she's a most fresh and delicate creature.	
CASSIO. Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking?	
CASSIO. Reputation, reputation, reputation! O, I have lost my	
CASSIO. She is indeed perfection.	
CASSIO. That thrust had been mine enemy indeed,	
CASSIO. There is besides in Roderigo's letter,	
CASSIUS. A peevish school boy, worthless of such honor,	
CASSIUS. A very pleasing night to honest men.	
CASSIUS. Brutus, a word with you.	
CASSIUS. Fellow, come from the throng; look upon Caesar.	
CASSIUS. Good night, my lord.	
CASSIUS. Ha? Portia?	
CASSIUS. How 'scaped killing when I cross'd you so?	
CASSIUS. I know where I will wear this dagger then:	
CASSIUS. Most noble brother, you have done me wrong.	
CASSIUS. O ye immortal gods!	
CASSIUS. Titinius, if thou lovest me,	
CASSIUS. Where is Antony?	
CASSIUS. Yes, every man of them, and no man here	
CASSIUS. Yet I fear him,	
CASSIUS. You are dull, Casca, and those sparks of life	
CATESBY. I will my lord, with all convenient haste.	
CATESBY. It's supper-time, my lord;	
CATESBY. Many good morrows to my noble lord!	
CATESBY. My lord?	
CATO. Brave Titinius!	
CATO. What bastard doth not? Who will go with me?	
CELIA. 'Was' is not 'is'; besides, the oath of a lover is no	
CELIA. Alas, poor shepherd!	
CELIA. And I'll sleep.                                  Exeunt	
CELIA. But is all this for your father?	
CELIA. Cry 'Holla' to thy tongue, I prithee; it curvets	
CELIA. Herein I see thou lov'st me not with the full weight that I	
CELIA. How now! Back, friends; shepherd, go off a little; go with	
CELIA. Is it possible?	
CELIA. Or I, I promise thee.	
CELIA. Orlando.	
CELIA. That's no matter; the feet might bear the verses.	
CELIA. Well, the beginning, that is dead and buried.	
CHAMBERLAIN. 'Tis now too certain;	
CHAMBERLAIN. No doubt he's noble;	
CHAMBERLAIN. You are young, Sir Harry Guildford.	
CHANCELLOR. Then thus for you, my lord: it stands agreed,	
CHARLES, wrestler to Frederick	
CHARLES. Divinest creature, Astraea's daughter,	
CHARLES. Had York and Somerset brought rescue in,	
CHARLES. No, I warrant your Grace, you shall not entreat him to a	
CHARLES. Stay, stay thy hands; thou art an Amazon,	
CHARMIAN. Good, sir, give me good fortune.	
CHARMIAN. Hush!	
CHARMIAN. Peace, peace, Iras!	
CHARMIAN. Well, if you were but an inch of fortune better than I,	
CHIEF JUSTICE. I think you are fall'n into the disease, for you	
CHIEF JUSTICE. What! you are as a candle, the better part burnt	
CHIEF JUSTICE. What's the matter?	
CHIEF JUSTICE. Where lay the King to-night?	
CHIRON. For that I am prepar'd and full resolv'd,	
CHIRON. Meanwhile, sir, with the little skill I have,	
CICERO. Good then, Casca. This disturbed sky	
CICERO. Why, saw you anything more wonderful?	
CINNA. I dreamt tonight that I did feast with Caesar,	
CITIZEN. He is, and feasts the nobles of the state	
CITIZEN. Till you compound whose right is worthiest,	
CITIZEN. Who is it that hath warn'd us to the walls?	
CITIZENS. will will so; almost all	
CLARENCE. By heaven, I will not do thee so much ease.	
CLARENCE. How darkly and how deadly dost thou speak!	
CLARENCE. In God's name, what art thou?	
CLARENCE. O, I have pass'd a miserable night,	
CLARENCE. O, no, he loves me, and he holds me dear.	
CLARENCE. The river hath thrice flow'd, no ebb between;	
CLARENCE. We know thy charge, Brakenbury, and will	
CLARENCE. With Poins, and other his continual followers.	
CLAUDIO. Come, officer, away.                           Exeunt	
CLAUDIO. I have done so, but he's not to be found.	
CLAUDIO. Why give you me this shame?	
CLEOPATRA. Antony	
CLEOPATRA. As well a woman with an eunuch play'd	
CLEOPATRA. Be it known that we, the greatest, are misthought	
CLEOPATRA. Charmian!	
CLEOPATRA. Didst thou behold Octavia?	
CLEOPATRA. For what good turn?	
CLEOPATRA. Give me my robe, put on my crown; I have	
CLEOPATRA. Go to, go to.	
CLEOPATRA. He was dispos'd to mirth; but on the sudden	
CLEOPATRA. He'll lead me, then, in triumph?	
CLEOPATRA. I'll give thee, friend,	
CLEOPATRA. Make thee a fortune from me.	
CLEOPATRA. My resolution and my hands I'll trust;	
CLEOPATRA. Noblest of men, woo't die?	
CLEOPATRA. O well-divided disposition! Note him,	
CLEOPATRA. Remember'st thou any that have died on't?	
CLEOPATRA. Say I would die.	
CLEOPATRA. So it should be, that none but Antony	
CLEOPATRA. The man hath seen some majesty, and should know.	
CLEOPATRA. This is my treasurer; let him speak, my lord,	
CLEOPATRA. Though age from folly could not give me freedom,	
CLEOPATRA. What say you? Hence,                  [Strikes him]	
CLERK OF CHATHAM	
CLERK.  [Reads]  'Your Grace shall understand that at the receipt	
CLIFFORD. Ay, crook-back, here I stand to answer thee,	
CLIFFORD. Chaplain, away! Thy priesthood saves thy life.	
CLIFFORD. Why, what a brood of traitors have we here!	
CLITUS. Fly, my lord, fly.	
CLOTEN. Bring this apparel to my chamber; that is the second thing	
CLOTEN. I love and hate her; for she's fair and royal,	
CLOTEN. I will inform your father.	
CLOTEN. If she be up, I'll speak with her; if not,	
CLOTEN. Meet thee at Milford Haven! I forgot to ask him one thing;	
CLOTEN. Not easily, I think.	
CLOTEN. That man of hers, Pisanio, her old servant,	
CLOTEN. The south fog rot him!	
CLOTEN. There is gold for you; sell me your good report.	
CLOWN.  [Sings]	
CLOWN. By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very melancholy	
CLOWN. Foh! prithee stand away. A paper from Fortune's close-stool	
CLOWN. From below your duke to beneath your constable, it will fit	
CLOWN. Good madonna, why mourn'st thou?	
CLOWN. Ho, the gibbet-maker? He says that he hath taken them down	
CLOWN. I did impeticos thy gratillity; for Malvolio's nose is no	
CLOWN. I wish you all joy of the worm.	
CLOWN. Like a drown'd man, a fool, and a madman: one draught above	
CLOWN. Marry, sir, lullaby to your bounty till I come again. I go,	
CLOWN. No, sir, the worse.	
CLOWN. O Lord, sir!-Spare not me.	
CLOWN. One, that she's not in heaven, whither God send her quickly!	
CLOWN. [Singing]	
CLOWN. [Sings] My lady is unkind, perdy.	
COMINIUS. As I guess, Marcius,	
COMINIUS. But how prevail'd you?	
COMINIUS. March on, my fellows;	
COMINIUS. Too modest are you;	
CONSTABLE. I will cap that proverb with 'There is flattery in	
CONSTANCE. There's a good grandam, boy, that would blot thee.	
CONSTANCE. Thou monstrous injurer of heaven and earth,	
CORIN. Fair sir, I pity her,	
CORIN. Mistress and master, you have oft enquired	
CORIN. You have too courtly a wit for me; I'll rest.	
CORIOLANUS. A gentleman.	
CORIOLANUS. Direct me, if it be your will,	
CORIOLANUS. I had rather have one scratch my head i' th' sun	
CORIOLANUS. Is this done?	
CORIOLANUS. Let go.	
CORIOLANUS. Let them pull all about mine ears, present me	
CORIOLANUS. No more of this, it does offend my heart.	
CORIOLANUS. O,	
CORIOLANUS. Say then; 'tis true, I ought so.	
CORIOLANUS. Shall I be charg'd no further than this present?	
CORIOLANUS. To brag unto them 'Thus I did, and thus!'	
CORIOLANUS. Well then, I pray, your price o' th' consulship?	
CORIOLANUS. What's this?	
CORIOLANUS. You bless me, gods!	
CORIOLANUS. You should account me the more virtuous, that I have	
CORNELIUS. Your daughter, whom she bore in hand to love	
CORNELIUS. [Aside] I do not like her. She doth think she has	
COSTARD. Have with thee, my girl.	
COSTARD. I Pompey am-	
COSTARD. If it were, I deny her virginity; I was taken with a maid.	
COSTARD. Marry, Master Schoolmaster, he that is likest to a	
COSTARD. No egma, no riddle, no l'envoy; no salve in the mail, sir.	
COSTARD. O, Marry me to one Frances! I smell some l'envoy, some	
COSTARD. Pray you, sir, how much carnation ribbon may a man buy for	
COSTARD. Then will she get the upshoot by cleaving the pin.	
COSTARD. True, and I for a plantain. Thus came your argument in;	
COSTARD. Your servant, and Costard.	
COUNTESS OF AUVERGNE	
COUNTESS OF ROUSILLON, mother to Bertram	
COUNTESS. Be thou blest, Bertram, and succeed thy father	
COUNTESS. Faith I do. Her father bequeath'd her to me; and she	
COUNTESS. Go not about; my love hath in't a bond	
COUNTESS. It rejoices me that I hope I shall see him ere I die.	
COUNTESS. Return you thither?	
COUNTESS. Then have I substance too.	
COUNTESS. Think upon patience. Pray you, gentlemen-	
COUNTESS. Thy marriage, sooner than thy wickedness.	
COUNTESS. Well, now.	
COUNTESS. Well, sir.	
COUNTESS. Which better than the first, O dear heaven, bless!	
COUNTESS. Yes, Helen, you might be my daughter-in-law.	
COURT,       "    "   "    "     "	
COURTEZAN. How say you now? Is not your husband mad?	
COURTEZAN. Sir, I must have that diamond from you.	
CRANMER. I hope I am not too late; and yet the gentleman	
CRANMER. My good lords, hitherto in all the progress	
CRANMER. She shall be, to the happiness of England,	
CRESSIDA. Adieu, uncle.	
CRESSIDA. By all Diana's waiting women yond,	
CRESSIDA. Hark! a word in your ear.	
CRESSIDA. I'll make my match to live,	
CRESSIDA. If you love an addle egg as well as you love an idle	
CRESSIDA. Indeed a tapster's arithmetic may soon bring his	
CRESSIDA. So do all men, unless they are drunk, sick, or have no	
CRESSIDA. So he is.	
CRESSIDA. What was his answer?	
CRESSIDA. Who comes here?	
CRESSIDA. Why tell you me of moderation?	
CRESSIDA. You shall not have it, Diomed; faith, you shall not;	
CROMWELL. The next is that Sir Thomas More is chosen	
CUPID. Hail to thee, worthy Timon, and to all	
CURTIS. Do you hear, ho? You must meet my master, to countenance my	
CURTIS. I call them forth to credit her.	
CURTIS. Is she so hot a shrew as she's reported?	
CURTIS. Let's ha't, good Grumio.	
CYMBELINE. Marry, the gods forfend!	
CYMBELINE. My tears that fall	
CYMBELINE. Nay, let her languish	
CYMBELINE. Now for the counsel of my son and queen!	
CYMBELINE. O most delicate fiend!	
CYMBELINE. O thou vile one!	
CYMBELINE. That diamond upon your finger, say	
CYMBELINE. Thou foolish thing!	
CYMBELINE. Thou took'st a beggar, wouldst have made my throne	
CYMBELINE. Thus far; and so farewell.	
Caesar doth bear me hard, but he loves Brutus.	
Caesar has taken Toryne.	
Caesar said to me, "Darest thou, Cassius, now	
Call by thy trumpet. He that dares approach,	
Call in more women. When I am dead, good wench,	
Call our cares fears; which will in time	
Came he not home to-night?	
Came post with post, and every one did bear	
Can alter a decree established;	
Can arbitrate this cause betwixt us twain;	
Can bring him to his sweet up-locked treasure,	
Can buy this unpriz'd precious maid of me.	
Can pierce a complete bosom. Why I desire thee	
Can set the Duke up in despite of me.	
Can we set eye on, but in an safe reason	
Can you not hate me, as I know you do,	
Cannot amend me; society is no comfort	
Cannot conceive nor name thee.	
Cannot impugn you as you do proceed.	
Cap and knee slaves, vapours, and minute-lacks!	
Cap. All things that we ordained festival	
Cap. Ha! let me see her. Out alas! she's cold,	
Cap. O heavens! O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!	
Cap. Things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily	
Cap. Tush, I will stir about,	
Cap. Welcome, gentlemen! Ladies that have their toes	
Cap. Wife. He is a kinsman to the Montague;	
Cap. Wife. Tybalt, my cousin! O my brother's child!	
Capt. Edmund is dead, my lord.	
Cardinal of York, are join'd with me their servant	
Carouse full measure to her maidenhead;	
Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back,	
Causeless have laid disgraces on my head,	
Charles Delabreth, High Constable of France;	
Charybdis, your mother; well, you are gone both ways.	
Cherish rebellion, and are rebels all.	
Chrish save me, I will cut off your head.	
Churchmen so hot? Good uncle, hide such malice;	
Citizens of Verona; Gentlemen and Gentlewomen of both houses;	
Civil dissension is a viperous worm	
Claud. 'Tis true indeed. So your daughter says. 'Shall I,' says	
Claud. And I, my lord.	
Claud. Away! I will not have to do with you.	
Claud. In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I look'd on.	
Claud. Sweet Hero, now thy image doth appear	
Claud. We have been up and down to seek thee; for we are high-proof	
Claud. Why then, she's mine. Sweet, let me see your face.	
Claudio, a young lord of Florence.	
Clement's Inn, like a man made after supper of a cheese-paring.	
Clifford, I say, come forth and fight with me.	
Clown. A whoreson, mad fellow's it was. Whose do you think it was?	
Cock's passion, silence! I hear my master.	
Collected for this expedition.	
Combine your hearts in one, your realms in one!	
Come daily to the banks, that when they see:	
Come from the country to be judg'd by you	
Come from the farthest steep of India,	
Come hither from the furrow, and be merry;	
Come hither, boy. If ever thou shalt love,	
Come hither, come! Come, come, and take a queen	
Come hither, gentlemen,	
Come hither, herald. Let the trumpet sound,	
Come hither. Ah, you precious pander! Villain,	
Come not near her.	
Come on, away. Apart upon our knees.	
Come place him here by me-	
Come then, and take the last warmth of my lips.	
Come therefore, let's about it speedily.              Exeunt	
Come to one mark, as many ways meet in one town,	
Come, Hastings, help me to my closet. Ah, poor Clarence!	
Come, I have learn'd that fearful commenting	
Come, but one verse.	
Come, come, be every one officious	
Come, come, in wooing sorrow let's be brief,	
Come, gentlemen, ye shall go my way, which	
Come, good fellow, put mine iron on.	
Come, how wouldst thou praise me?	
Come, let's away.                                     Exeunt	
Come, make him stand upon this molehill here	
Come, my sweet wife, my dearest mother, and	
Come, now towards Chertsey with your holy load,	
Come, side by side together live and die;	
Come, some music!	
Come, tailor, let us see these ornaments;	
Come, take-a your rapier, and come after my heel to the	
Come, we will walk. There's other of our friends	
Come, will you go?	
Comes home again, on better judgement making.	
Comes sneaking, and so sucks her princely eggs,	
Comfort's in heaven; and we are on the earth,	
Coming from Sardis, on our former ensign	
Command into obedience; fear and niceness-	
Command the conquest, Charles, it shall be thine,	
Commit to these waste blanks, and thou shalt find	
Committing me unto my brother's love;	
Compare our faces and be judge yourself.	
Con. Yes, the fashion is the fashion.	
Conceal me what I am, and be my aid	
Condemning shadows quite.	
Condemns you to the death. See them delivered over	
Conferring them on younger strengths while we	
Confin'd in all she has, her monument,	
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed	
Confound them by some course, and come to me,	
Confusion's near; I cannot speak. You tribunes	
Conscience is but a word that cowards use,	
Consent upon the order of their fight,	
Conserved of maiden's hearts.	
Consider then, we come but in despite.	
Consider, lords, he is the next of blood	
Constrain'd to watch in darkness, rain, and cold.	
Consuming it with speaking!	
Continue where he is. To shift his being	
Continues still a Jove.                                 Exit	
Convey them with safe conduct. Fare you well.	
Cor. Be govern'd by your knowledge, and proceed	
Cor. Then be't so, my good lord. [To the Doctor] How, does the King?	
Cordelia, Cordelia! stay a little. Ha!	
Coriolanus, in Corioli?	
Corn. Come, sir, what letters had you late from France?	
Corn. I set him there, sir; but his own disorders	
Corn. If he be taken, he shall never more	
Corn. If you see vengeance-	
Corn. No more perchance does mine, or his, or hers.	
Corn. This is a fellow of the selfsame colour	
Corn. Where hast thou sent the King?	
Corn. You know not why we came to visit you-	
Corrupters of my faith! you shall no more	
Cosmo, Lodowick, and Gratii, two hundred fifty each; mine own	
Could all my travels warrant me they live.	
Could draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slain;	
Could have knock'd out his brains, for he had none;	
Could make me any summer's story tell:	
Could trammel up the consequence, and catch,	
Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow,	
Couple it with something; make it a word and a blow.	
Coventry	
Crack my clear voice with sobs and break my heart,	
Crams his rich thievery up, he knows not how.	
Cried hate upon him; and all their prayers and love	
Cries out for noble York and Somerset	
Cries out upon the name of Salisbury!	
Cry, Troyans, cry, A Helen and a woe!	
Cup us till the world go round,	
Cur. Have you heard of no likely wars toward 'twixt the two Dukes	
Curs'd he thy stones for thus deceiving me!	
Cursed the heart that had the heart to do it!	
Cuts off so many years of fearing death.	
DARDANIUS. O Clitus!	
DARDANIUS. Shall I do such a deed?	
DAUPHIN. 'Le chien est retourne a son propre vomissement, et la	
DAUPHIN. Mort Dieu, ma vie! all is confounded, all!	
DAUPHIN. O Dieu vivant! Shall a few sprays of us,	
DAUPHIN. O, then belike she was old and gentle; and you rode like a	
DAUPHIN. So perhaps did yours.	
DAVY. An't please your worship, there's one Pistol come from the	
DAVY. Sweet sir, sit; I'll be with you anon; most sweet sir, sit.	
DECIUS. And Cassius too.	
DEMETRIUS. And thus she moans, videlicet:-	
DEMETRIUS. He dares not come there for the candle; for, you see, it	
DEMETRIUS. I would I had your bond; for I perceive	
DEMETRIUS. I'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes,	
DEMETRIUS. If she cannot entreat, I can compel.	
DEMETRIUS. See how with signs and tokens she can scrowl.	
DEMETRIUS. So should the murdered look; and so should I,	
DEMETRIUS. So, now go tell, an if thy tongue can speak,	
DEMETRIUS. Soft! who comes here?	
DEMETRIUS. These things seem small and undistinguishable,	
DEMETRIUS. Villain, what hast thou done?	
DERBY. I Will not rise unless your Highness hear me.	
DERBY. John Duke of Norfolk, Walter Lord Ferrers,	
DERCETAS. I say, O Caesar, Antony is dead.	
DESDEMONA.                     Is't possible?	
DESDEMONA.                  Why, this is not a boon;	
DESDEMONA.               Well, my good lord.	
DESDEMONA.         What horrible fancy's this?	
DESDEMONA.      Nor I. I would not there reside	
DESDEMONA. Beshrew me, if I would do such a wrong	
DESDEMONA. Cousin, there's fall'n between him and my lord	
DESDEMONA. Faith, that's with watching; 'twill away again.	
DESDEMONA. He speaks well.	
DESDEMONA. Heaven bless us!	
DESDEMONA. I have none. Do not talk to me, Emilia;	
DESDEMONA. My lord, what is your will?	
DESDEMONA. So would not I. My love doth so approve him,	
DESDEMONA. Talk you of killing?	
DESDEMONA. To whom, my lord? with whom? how am I false?	
DESDEMONA. What is your pleasure?	
DESDEMONA. With who?	
DIANA. Alas, poor lady!	
DIANA. And this was it I gave him, being abed.	
DIANA. Ay, my lord.	
DIANA. By Jove, if ever I knew man, 'twas you.	
DIANA. She then was honest.	
DICK. Silence!	
DICK. [Aside] He was an honest man and a good bricklayer.	
DIOMEDES. Ay, there, there.	
DIOMEDES. Fair Lady Cressid,	
DIOMEDES. Fo, fo! adieu! you palter.	
DIOMEDES. I had your heart before; this follows it.	
DIOMEDES. Now, my lord.	
DIOMEDES. Will you remember?	
DOCTOR BUTTS, physician to the King	
DOCTOR. Foul whisperings are abroad. Unnatural deeds	
DOLABELLA. Most noble Empress, you have heard of me?	
DOLL. A pox damn you, you muddy rascal! Is that all the comfort you	
DOLL. For God's sake thrust him down stairs; I cannot endure such a	
DOLL. Hang him, swaggering rascal! Let him not come hither; it is	
DOLL. Sirrah, what humour's the Prince of?	
DORSET. Ay, my good lord; and no man in the presence	
DORSET. It touches you, my lord, as much as me.	
DORSET. No man but prophesied revenge for it.	
DRAMATIS PERSONAE	
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Go back again, and be new beaten home?	
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Master, I am here ent'red in bond for you.	
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Nay, rather persuade him to hold his hands.	
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Return'd so soon! rather approach'd too late.	
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. You would say so, master, if your garments were thin.	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE.  [Within]  Nor to-day here you must not;	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. By me?	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Certain ones, then.	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. For two; and sound ones too.	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I durst have denied that, before you	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I know not at whose suit he is arrested well;	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I never spake with her in all my life.	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. If it be, sir, I pray you eat none of it.	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Lest it make you choleric, and purchase me	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No longer from head to foot than	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No? Why, 'tis a plain case: he that	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. She that would be your wife now ran from you.	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Some devils ask but the parings of one's nail,	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. There is a fat friend at your master's house,	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. To Adriana! that is where we din'd,	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. [Within] Mome, malt-horse, capon, coxcomb, idiot, patch!	
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. on a band, but on a stronger thing,	
DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER, widow of Thomas of Woodstock,	
DUCHESS. At that sad stop, my lord,	
DUCHESS. Come, my old son; I pray God make thee new.      Exeunt	
DUCHESS. O Harry's wife, triumph not in my woes!	
DUCHESS. O King, believe not this hard-hearted man!	
DUCHESS. O, let me speak!	
DUCHESS. So many miseries have craz'd my voice	
DUCHESS. What say'st thou? Majesty! I am but Grace.	
DUCHESS. Why, York, what is it, my lord?	
DUKE OF BEDFORD,       "     "  "    "	
DUKE OF BEDFORD, uncle to the King, and Regent of France	
DUKE OF SUFFOLK	
DUKE OF SURREY	
DUKE OF VENICE. Bring us the letters; call the messenger.	
DUKE SENIOR. Come, shall we go and kill us venison?	
DUKE SENIOR. Fie on thee! I can tell what thou wouldst do.	
DUKE SENIOR. If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.	
DUKE SENIOR. Most Mischievous foul sin, in chiding sin;	
DUKE SENIOR. What would you have? Your gentleness shall force	
DUKE. 'Tis certain then for Cyprus.	
DUKE. And you, good brother father. What offence hath this man made	
DUKE. Ay; prithee, sing.                               [Music]	
DUKE. Be absolute for death; either death or life	
DUKE. Boldly, at least. But, O, poor souls,	
DUKE. But hear you-	
DUKE. By mine honesty,	
DUKE. Come, stand by me; fear nothing. Guard with halberds.	
DUKE. Convenient is it. Make a swift return;	
DUKE. Husband?	
DUKE. I cannot be so answer'd.	
DUKE. I do constantly believe you. The time is come even now. I	
DUKE. I know not where; but wheresoever, I wish him well.	
DUKE. I know thee well. How dost thou, my good fellow?	
DUKE. I protest I love the Duke as I love myself.	
DUKE. I tell thee, Syracusian, twenty years	
DUKE. I'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience,	
DUKE. It is no other.	
DUKE. It is not my consent,	
DUKE. Let this be done:	
DUKE. Might you dispense with your leisure, I would by and by have	
DUKE. No might nor greatness in mortality	
DUKE. That, now you are come, you will be gone. Leave me a while	
DUKE. The General of our Horse thou art; and we,	
DUKE. The contents of this is the return of the Duke; you shall	
DUKE. There rest.	
DUKE. Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. Have you not	
DUKE. You do but lose your labour.	
DUKE. You will think you have made no offence if the Duke avouch	
DULL. I'll make one in a dance, or so, or I will play	
DULL. [Aside] If a talent be a claw, look how he claws him with a	
DUMAIN. Sir, I pray you, a word: what lady is that same?	
DUMAIN. The Great.	
DUMAIN. [Aside to BOYET] He may not by the yard.	
Dabbled in blood, and he shriek'd out aloud	
Dar'st thou, thou little better thing than earth,	
Dare no man answer in a case of truth?	
Dares stir a wing if Warwick shake his bells.	
Dark-working sorcerers that change the mind,	
Dashing the garment of this peace, aboded	
Dealing with witches and with conjurers,	
Dear earth, I do salute thee with my hand,	
Death hath not struck so fat a deer to-day,	
Debauch'd on every tomb, on every grave	
December. But I hope you have no intent to turn husband, have	
Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass,	
Decoct their cold blood to such valiant heat?	
Defective in their natures, grow to wildness;	
Definitively thus I answer you:	
Degrees in schools, and brotherhoods in cities,	
Deliver him to safety; and return,	
Deliver'd letters, spite of intermission,	
Denied my house for his, me for his wife.	
Denies that saying. Sirrah, what say you?	
Deny your asking: take your choice of those	
Deriv'd from Edward, his great-grandfather.	
Derived from the ancient Capilet.	
Deserv'd this hearing. Bid 'em send o' th' instant	
Desire him not to flatter with his lord,	
Desiring this man's art, and that man's scope,	
Desolate, desolate, will I hence and die;	
Destroy our friends, and after weep their dust;	
Destroy what lies before 'em.	
Devesting them for bed; and then, but now	
Devil or devil's dam, I'll conjure thee;	
Devise the fittest time and safest way	
Did I forget that by the house of York	
Did York's dread curse prevail so much with heaven	
Did pocket up my letters, and with taunts	
Did show ourselves i' th' field; and to that end	
Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,	
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;	
Dido and her Aeneas shall want troops,	
Didst break that vow; and with thy treacherous blade	
Didst ever hear a man so penitent?	
Didst thou deliver to me on the mart.	
Dies in the zeal of that which it presents.	
Diminish'd to her cock; her cock, a buoy	
Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen!	
Directly seasons him his enemy.	
Discomfited great Douglas; ta'en him once,	
Disdains the tillage of thy husbandry?	
Dishonour not your mothers; now attest	
Dismiss my soldiers, or capitulate	
Dissentious numbers pest'ring streets than see	
Distinctly speak of her; though I may fear,	
Divert and crack, rend and deracinate,	
Divide me from your bosom.	
Divides more wider than the sky and earth;	
Do I put up that womanly defense,	
Do break the clouds, as did the wives of Jewry	
Do faithful homage, and receive free honors-	
Do it for thy true-love take;	
Do make against it. No, good Worcester, no!	
Do make their children blind;	
Do not embrace me till each circumstance	
Do not infest your mind with beating on	
Do not so much as my poor name rehearse;	
Do you but mark how this becomes the house:	
Do you perceive the gastness of her eye?	
Do you with cheeks abash'd behold our works	
Doct. Madam, do you; 'tis fittest.	
Does by their own insinuation grow.	
Dog. Come hither, neighbour Seacoal. God hath bless'd you with a	
Dog. This is the end of the charge: you, constable, are to present	
Dog. Why then, let them alone till they are sober. If they make you	
Doing more murther in this loathsome world,	
Doors that were ne'er acquainted with their wards	
Dost thou love me, I know thou wilt say 'Ay';	
Doth half that glory to the sober west	
Doth it not then our eyelids sink? I find not	
Doth lesser blench at suff'rance than I do.	
Doth make the fault the worse by th' excuse,	
Doth more than counterpoise a full third part	
Doth not she think me an old murtherer,	
Doth win immortal fame.	
Doth with their death bury their parents' strife.	
Doting like me, and like me banished,	
Doug. Arm, gentlemen! to arms! for I have thrown	
Down from the waist they are Centaurs,	
Dramatis Personae	
Dramatis Personae	
Dramatis Personae	
Draw near them then in being merciful.	
Draw, archers, draw your arrows to the head!	
Draw, men, for all this privileged place	
Dreaming on both; for all thy blessed youth	
Drop in my neck; as it determines, so	
Drove back again unto my native clime?	
Drugs poison him that so feil sick of you.	
Duke, I say to thee again, would eat mutton on Fridays. He's not	
Dulling my lines, and doing me disgrace.	
Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows.	
Dy'd in the dying slaughter of their foes.	
EARL OF KENT	
EARL OF SALISBURY	
EARL OF SALISBURY	
EDMUND, EARL OF RUTLAND, his son	
EDWARD, EARL OF MARCH, afterwards KING EDWARD IV, his son	
EDWARD, my lord, thy son, our king, is dead.	
EDWARD. Ay, noble father, if our words will serve.	
EDWARD. But for a kingdom any oath may be broken:	
EDWARD. Lord Warwick, on thy shoulder will I lean;	
EDWARD. Now you are heir, therefore enjoy it now.	
EGEUS. Enough, enough, my Lord; you have enough;	
EGEUS. With duty and desire we follow you.	
ELBOW. Come your ways, sir; come.	
ELBOW. Marry, sir, he hath offended the law; and, sir, we take him	
ELINOR. He hath a trick of Coeur-de-lion's face;	
ELINOR. I like thee well. Wilt thou forsake thy fortune,	
ELINOR. My blessing go with thee!	
ELINOR. Nay, I would have you go before me thither.	
ELY. But what prevention?	
EMILIA.               There be some such, no question.	
EMILIA. A halter pardon him! And hell gnaw his bones!	
EMILIA. Alas, good gentleman! alas, good Cassio!	
EMILIA. But now, my lord.	
EMILIA. Do thy worst;	
EMILIA. Good madam, what's the matter with my lord?	
EMILIA. How if fair and foolish?	
EMILIA. Thou dost belie her, and thou art a devil.	
EMILIA. What will you do with't, that you have been so earnest	
ENOBARBUS. How appears the fight?	
ENOBARBUS. Not he that himself is not so; which is Mark Antony. He	
ENOBARBUS. O, bear me witness, night-	
ENOBARBUS. So hath my lord dar'd him to single fight.	
ENOBARBUS. That truth should be silent I had almost forgot.	
ENOBARBUS. Why, sir, give the gods a thankful sacrifice. When it	
ENOBARBUS. Why, then we kill all our women. We see how mortal an	
ENOBARBUS. [To ANTONY] Ha, my brave emperor!	
EPILOGUE	
EPILOGUE.	
EROS. Briefly, sir.	
ERPINGHAM. Shall I attend your Grace?	
ESCALUS. Do you hear how he misplaces?	
ESCALUS. Go to, go to; no matter for the dish, sir.	
ESCALUS. He shows his reason for that: to have a dispatch of	
ESCALUS. How would you live, Pompey- by being a bawd? What do you	
ESCALUS. I guess not.	
ESCALUS. It grieves me for the death of Claudio;	
ESCALUS. To my house. Fare you well.              [Exit ELBOW]	
ESCALUS. What else?	
ESCALUS. Where were you born, friend?	
ESCALUS. Your mistress' name?	
EVANS. Fery goot. I will make a prief of it in my note-book;	
EVANS. Go your ways, and ask of Doctor Caius' house which	
EVANS. Leave your prabbles, oman. What is the focative	
EVANS. No; Master Slender is let the boys leave to play.	
EVANS. There is reasons and causes for it.	
EXETER. It follows, then, the cat must stay at home;	
EXETER. Were our tears wanting to this funeral,	
Each jealous of the other, as the stung	
Each minute teems a new one.	
Each putter-out of five for one will bring us	
Each small annexment, petty consequence,	
Earl of Gloucester.	
Early though't be, have on their riveted trim,	
Edg. By nursing them, my lord. List a brief tale;	
Edg. Give me thy arm.	
Edg. Hail, gentle sir.	
Edg. He faints! My lord, my lord!	
Edg. How to prevent the fiend and to kill vermin.	
Edg. The prince of darkness is a gentleman!	
Edg. This is above all strangeness.	
Edg. Who gives anything to poor Tom? whom the foul fiend hath led	
Edm. I hear my father coming. Pardon me!	
Edm. I promise you, the effects he writes of succeed unhappily: as	
Edm. Most savage and unnatural!	
Edm. Parted you in good terms? Found you no displeasure in him by	
Edm. Spake you with him?	
Edm. That's my fear. I pray you have a continent forbearance till	
Edm. The Duke be here to-night? The better! best!	
Edm. The enemy 's in view; draw up your powers.	
Edmund?	
Edward's camp, near Warwick	
Edward's unhappy sons do bid thee flourish.	
Either betray'd by falsehood of his guard	
Either in hope or present, I'd exchange	
Either not assailed, or victor being charged,	
Either of King or Council, when you went	
Else ne'er could they hold out so as they do.	
Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,	
Else would I very shortly see thee there.	
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.	
Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.	
Emilia, though he be thy husband. How say you, Cassio? Is he not	
Empties itself, as doth an inland brook	
Endure our law. Thou'rt dead.	
Engage it to the trial, if thou dar'st.	
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.	
Engaging and redeeming of himself	
England hath long been mad, and scarr'd herself;	
England shall double gild his treble guilt;	
England. Before the King's palace.	
English'd rightly, is 'I am Sir John Falstaff's.'	
Enjoyed no sooner but despised straight,	
Ensues his piteous and unpitied end.	
Enter A SENATOR, with papers in his hand	
Enter AENEAS, PARIS, ANTENOR, and DEIPHOBUS	
Enter AJAX	
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, GONZALO, ADRIAN, FRANCISCO, and OTHERS	
Enter ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE, DROMIO OF SYRACUSE, and FIRST MERCHANT	
Enter ANTONY With attendants	
Enter ARIEL, invisible	
Enter Apothecary.	
Enter BAPTISTA, and LUCENTIO as CAMBIO	
Enter BEROWNE, with a paper his band, alone	
Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES	
Enter BOLINGBROKE, YORK, NORTHUMBERLAND, PERCY, ROSS, WILLOUGHBY,	
Enter BRAKENBURY the Lieutenant	
Enter BRANDON, a SERGEANT-AT-ARMS before him,	
Enter CAESAR and his army	
Enter CATESBY	
Enter CHARLES, BASTARD, ALENCON, REIGNIER, and forces	
Enter CLARENCE and SOMERSET	
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and MARDIAN	
Enter CLOTEN and the two LORDS	
Enter CLOTEN and two LORDS	
Enter Cassio and Iago.	
Enter Cassius and his Powers.	
Enter Cornwall, Regan, Gloucester, Servants.	
Enter DEMETRIUS	
Enter DERBY to RICHMOND in his tent;	
Enter DROMIO OF EPHESUS	
Enter DUKE in his own habit, and Friar PETER	
Enter DUKE, disguised as before	
Enter DUMAIN, with a paper	
Enter Don Pedro and Claudio.	
Enter Don Pedro.	
Enter EARL OF SALISBURY and a WELSH CAPTAIN	
Enter EGEUS, and his daughter HERMIA, LYSANDER,	
Enter ELBOW and OFFICERS with FROTH and POMPEY	
Enter ERPINGHAM	
Enter Edgar.	
Enter Edgar.	
Enter Edmund.	
Enter FALSTAFF, SHALLOW, SILENCE, BARDOLPH, the PAGE, and DAVY	
Enter FENTON	
Enter FLAVIUS, TIMON'S Steward, with many bills in his hand	
Enter FLUELLEN	
Enter Falstaff, [Gadshill, Bardolph, and Peto;	
Enter GEORGE	
Enter GLOUCESTER	
Enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM, at several doors	
Enter GLOUCESTER, BEDFORD, EXETER, ERPINGHAM, with all his host;	
Enter GLOUCESTER, and RATCLIFF	
Enter HELENA and the two FRENCH GENTLEMEN	
Enter HOST, CAIUS, and RUGBY	
Enter HOST, SHALLOW, SLENDER, and PAGE	
Enter Hamlet.	
Enter IMOGEN alone, in boy's clothes	
Enter IMOGEN in her bed, and a LADY attending	
Enter ISABELLA	
Enter Iago.	
Enter JAQUES	
Enter JUSTICE SHALLOW, SLENDER, and SIR HUGH EVANS	
Enter John the Bastard.	
Enter KING HENRY THE FIFTH, attended	
Enter KING RICHARD in arms, with NORFOLK, RATCLIFF,	
Enter KING and QUEEN, AUMERLE, BUSHY, GREEN, BAGOT,	
Enter Kent, [disguised].	
Enter Kent.	
Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.	
Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other	
Enter LA PUCELLE disguis'd, with four soldiers dressed	
Enter LORD CAPUCIUS	
Enter LOVELL	
Enter LUCIO	
Enter LUCIUS, CAPTAINS, and a SOOTHSAYER	
Enter Lady Macbeth and a Servant.	
Enter Lady of the House and Nurse.	
Enter Leonato (Governor of Messina), Hero (his Daughter),	
Enter Leonato, [Antonio] his Brother, Hero his Daughter,	
Enter MALVOLIO	
Enter MARCIUS	
Enter MARIA	
Enter MARIA and CLOWN	
Enter MISTRESS PAGE	
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, with a letter	
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY	
Enter Macbeth.	
Enter Malcolm and old Siward.	
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND	
Enter Nurse and her Man [Peter].	
Enter OLIVER	
Enter Octavius, Antony, and their Army.	
Enter Othello and Attendants.	
Enter Othello, Lodovico, Desdemona, Emilia, and Attendants.	
Enter Othello.	
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER	
Enter PAROLLES	
Enter PETO	
Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHERINA, HORTENSIO, and SERVANTS	
Enter PHILARIO, IACHIMO, a FRENCHMAN, a DUTCHMAN, and a SPANIARD	
Enter PISANIO	
Enter PISTOL	
Enter POET and PAINTER	
Enter POSTHUMUS and two GAOLERS	
Enter PRINCE JOHN OF LANCASTER, WARWICK, LORDS, and others	
Enter PROVOST	
Enter PROVOST, CLAUDIO, JULIET, and OFFICERS;	
Enter Portia and Lucius.	
Enter QUEEN MARGARET and the PRINCE OF WALES	
Enter RICHARD PLANTAGENET	
Enter RICHARD, DUKE OF GLOUCESTER, solus	
Enter ROSALIND, SILVIUS, and PHEBE	
Enter SALERIO and SOLANIO	
Enter SALISBURY	
Enter SCROOP	
Enter SERVILIUS	
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS	
Enter SIR ANDREW AGUECHEEK	
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS	
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS and SIMPLE	
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS and SIMPLE	
Enter SIR NATHANIEL, for ALEXANDER	
Enter SIR TOBY	
Enter SIR TOBY and MARIA	
Enter SIR WILLIAM LUCY	
Enter STEPHANO singing; a bottle in his hand	
Enter SUFFOLK	
Enter THERSITES	
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, PHILOSTRATE, LORDS, and ATTENDANTS	
Enter THISBY	
Enter TIMON and his train, with ALCIBIADES	
Enter TITUS and MARCUS	
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY	
Enter TROILUS	
Enter TROILUS' BOY	
Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS with SENATORS of Corioli	
Enter Tybalt.	
Enter Ursula.	
Enter VIOLA, a CAPTAIN, and SAILORS	
Enter VOLUMNIA	
Enter Vintner.	
Enter WARWICK; CLIFFORD flies	
Enter WOLSEY and CROMWELL	
Enter YORK	
Enter YORK, attended	
Enter [Leonato's] brother [Antonio], Hero, Beatrice,	
Enter a BEADLE with whips	
Enter a COURTEZAN	
Enter a FRENCH SERGEANT and two SENTINELS	
Enter a GROOM of the stable	
Enter a MESSENGER	
Enter a MESSENGER	
Enter a MESSENGER	
Enter a MESSENGER	
Enter a MESSENGER	
Enter a MESSENGER	
Enter a Messenger.	
Enter a POST	
Enter a SERVANT	
Enter a SOLDIER as a Messenger	
Enter a Servant.	
Enter a second MESSENGER	
Enter another MESSENGER	
Enter corpse of KING HENRY THE SIXTH, with halberds to guard it;	
Enter his thoughts, save such as doth revolve	
Enter musicians	
Enter old QUEEN MARGARET, behind	
Enter on the walls, the KING, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE,	
Enter the ARCHBISHOP, THOMAS MOWBRAY the EARL MARSHAL, LORD HASTINGS,	
Enter the Archbishop of York and Sir Michael.	
Enter the CONSTABLE OF FRANCE, the LORD RAMBURES, the DUKE OF ORLEANS,	
Enter the COUNTESS and her PORTER	
Enter the DUKE OF NORFOLK at one door; at the other,	
Enter the DUKE OF YORK and the DUCHESS	
Enter the DUKE, attended; AEGEON, bareheaded;	
Enter the EARLS OF SOMERSET, SUFFOLK, and WARWICK;	
Enter the GHOST of CLARENCE	
Enter the KING	
Enter the KING, GLOUCESTER, BEDFORD, EXETER, WARWICK, WESTMORELAND,	
Enter the LORD CHAMBERLAIN and LORD SANDYS	
Enter the LORD CHAMBERLAIN reading this letter	
Enter the LORDS to RICHMOND sitting in his tent	
Enter the Prince [and Attendants].	
Enter the two KINGS, with their powers, at several doors	
Enter three or four, and offer to bind him. He strives	
Enter three soldiers: JOHN BATES, ALEXANDER COURT,	
Enter two or three MURDERERS running over the stage,	
Enter young Siward.	
Ere I can perfect mine intents, to kneel.	
Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air	
Ere sun-rise, prayers from preserved souls,	
Ere they have done their mischief. Where's thy drum?	
Ere we depart we'll share a bounteous time	
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears	
Escalus, Prince of Verona.	
Esteem as foil wherein thou art to set	
Eternal numbers to outlive long date.	
Eternity was in our lips and eyes,	
Even as I have of fertile England's soil.	
Even at noonday upon the marketplace,	
Even for this, let us divided live,	
Even from Hyperion's rising in the east	
Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows	
Even in the spring of love, thy love-springs rot?	
Even now the frozen bosom of the North	
Even out of your report. But pray you tell me,	
Even so, or with much more contempt, men's eyes	
Even the billows of the sea,	
Even then when they sit idly in the sun.	
Even there where merchants most do congregate,	
Even to falling. Give him no breath, but now	
Even to my wish. I have a letter from her	
Even when the navel of the state was touch'd,	
Even with the stroke and line of his great justice;	
Even with the vail and dark'ning of the sun,	
Ever shall be fortunate.	
Every elf and fairy sprite	
Every tithe soul 'mongst many thousand dismes	
Exceeding those that I can wish upon thee,	
Exceeding wise, fair-spoken, and persuading;	
Except it be to pray against thy foes.	
Excursions. Enter RICHARD and CLIFFORD	
Exeunt ATTENDANTS	
Exeunt BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and ARMY	
Exeunt BIANCA and SERVANT	
Exeunt CAMBRIDGE, SCROOP, and GREY, guarded	
Exeunt CLOWN, FABIAN, SIR TOBY, and SIR ANDREW	
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS	
Exeunt Duke, Senators, and Officers.	
Exeunt FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH	
Exeunt GARDINER and PAGE	
Exeunt Gentlemen.	
Exeunt JESSICA and LORENZO	
Exeunt Juliet and Nurse.	
Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].	
Exeunt LUCENTIO and BIANCA	
Exeunt LUCIUS and LORDS	
Exeunt Othello and Desdemona.	
Exeunt Othello, Lodovico, and Attendants.	
Exeunt PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER	
Exeunt PARIS and MENELAUS	
Exeunt REIGNIER and MARGARET	
Exeunt SALERIO and SOLANIO	
Exeunt THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, EGEUS, and train	
Exeunt [Mother and Nurse.]	
Exeunt [all but Albany and Edgar].	
Exeunt [all but Montague, his Wife, and Benvolio].	
Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS and MENAS	
Exeunt all but HORTENSIO	
Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.	
Exeunt all but IMOGEN	
Exeunt all but Iago and Cassio.	
Exeunt all but SHALLOW, SLENDER, and EVANS	
Exeunt all but TROILUS and ULYSSES	
Exeunt all but the BASTARD	
Exeunt fighting	
Exeunt marching; after the which a peal of ordnance	
Exeunt severally PRIAM and HECTOR. Alarums	
Exeunt severally.	
Exeunt some with KING HENRY	
Exeunt.	
Exeunt.	
Exeunt.	
Exeunt.	
Exeunt. Alarum.	
Exeunt. Manet Claudio.	
Exit	
Exit	
Exit	
Exit	
Exit	
Exit BARDOLPH	
Exit BASTARD	
Exit DEMETRIUS	
Exit Desdemona.	
Exit Falstaff.	
Exit GURNEY	
Exit Gentleman.	
Exit Horatio.	
Exit SERVILIUS	
Exit SOOTHSAYER	
Exit TIMON into his cave	
Exit WALTER with SUFFOLK	
Exit WESTMORELAND	
Exit Worcester [with Vernon]	
Exit Worcester.	
Exit [Gloucester].	
Exit running. [Attendants follow.]	
Exit servant	
Exit.	
Exit.	
Exit.	
Exit.	
Extemporally will stage us, and present	
Exterior form, outward accoutrement,	
Eye of newt and toe of frog,	
FABIAN. Ay, an you had any eye behind you, you might see more	
FABIAN. O, peace, peace!	
FAIRY. And here my mistress. Would that he were gone!	
FALSTAFF. Bardolph, I say!	
FALSTAFF. But to stand stained with travel, and sweating with	
FALSTAFF. But what says she to me? Be brief, my good she-	
FALSTAFF. Didst thou hear me?	
FALSTAFF. Do so, good mine host.	
FALSTAFF. Dost thou hear? It is mine ancient.	
FALSTAFF. Go fetch me a quart of sack; put a toast in 't.	
FALSTAFF. Go to; peace, Mouldy; you shall go. Mouldy, it is time	
FALSTAFF. Hang him, mechanical salt-butter rogue! I will	
FALSTAFF. I pray thee now, deliver them like a man of this world.	
FALSTAFF. I would thou wert a man's tailor, that thou mightst mend	
FALSTAFF. Is it? I Will then address me to my appointment.	
FALSTAFF. It shows my earnestness of affection-	
FALSTAFF. Kiss me, Doll.	
FALSTAFF. Let it alone; I'll make other shift. You'll be a fool	
FALSTAFF. Let the court of France show me such another. I	
FALSTAFF. Master Brook, I will be thrown into Etna, as I	
FALSTAFF. Master Shallow, I owe you a thousand pounds.	
FALSTAFF. Men of all sorts take a pride to gird at me. The brain of	
FALSTAFF. My lord, I was born about three of the clock in the	
FALSTAFF. No, no, no; not so; I did not think thou wast within	
FALSTAFF. Of what quality was your love, then?	
FALSTAFF. Prick him.	
FALSTAFF. She is pistol-proof, sir; you shall not hardly offend	
FALSTAFF. She lives, Master Shallow.	
FALSTAFF. The devil take one party and his dam the other!	
FALSTAFF. These fellows will do well. Master Shallow, God keep you!	
FALSTAFF. To have her, or no. Go; say the woman told me	
FALSTAFF. Very well, my lord, very well. Rather an't please you, it	
FALSTAFF. Want no Mistress Ford, Master Brook; you shall	
FALSTAFF. Where is it?	
FANG. An I but fist him once; an 'a come but within my vice!	
FANG. Snare, we must arrest Sir John Falstaff.	
FASTOLFE. Ay,	
FENTON. I thank thee; and I pray thee, once to-night	
FENTON. Yet hear me speak. Assist me in my purpose,	
FERDINAND. This is a most majestic vision, and	
FIRST BEADLE. If it do, you shall have a dozen of cushions again;	
FIRST BROTHER. When once he was mature for man,	
FIRST CITIZEN. Ay, sir; well, well.	
FIRST CITIZEN. Come, come, we fear the worst; all will be	
FIRST CITIZEN. Good morrow, neighbour. Whither away so	
FIRST CITIZEN. Let us kill him, and we'll have corn at our own	
FIRST CITIZEN. No, 'tis his kind of speech- he did not mock us.	
FIRST GENTLEMAN. But most of all agreeing with the proclamation.	
FIRST GENTLEMAN. How now! which of your hips has the most profound	
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Howsoe'er 'tis strange,	
FIRST GENTLEMAN. I think I have done myself wrong, have I not?	
FIRST GENTLEMAN. Marquis Dorset;	
FIRST GENTLEMAN. That I can tell you too. The Archbishop	
FIRST GUARD. What work is here! Charmian, is this well done?	
FIRST HUNTSMAN. Believe me, lord, I think he cannot choose.	
FIRST KEEPER. That cannot be; the noise of thy cross-bow	
FIRST KEEPER. We are true subjects to the King, King Edward.	
FIRST LORD. A thousand pieces.	
FIRST LORD. Hurt him! His body's a passable carcass if he be not	
FIRST LORD. It is the Count Rousillon, my good lord,	
FIRST LORD. It were fit you knew him; lest, reposing too far in his	
FIRST LORD. My lord, he is but even now gone hence;	
FIRST LORD. O, yes, into a thousand similes.	
FIRST LORD. Royal cheer, I warrant you.	
FIRST LORD. The best of happiness, honour, and fortunes, keep with	
FIRST LORD. Upon that were my thoughts tiring when we encount'red.	
FIRST LORD. We shall, noble Captain.	
FIRST LORD. Why does he ask him of me?	
FIRST MESSENGER. By this at Dunsmore, marching hitherward.	
FIRST MURDERER. And like a traitor to the name of God	
FIRST MURDERER. Ho! who's here?	
FIRST MURDERER. Right, as snow in harvest. Come, you	
FIRST MURDERER. Where's thy conscience now?	
FIRST MURDERER. Who made thee then a bloody minister	
FIRST MURTHERER. Where is your husband?	
FIRST OFFICER. Come, come, they are almost here. How many stand for	
FIRST OFFICER. Here is more news.	
FIRST PAGE. Shall we clap into't roundly, without hawking, or	
FIRST PETITIONER. Here 'a comes, methinks, and the Queen with him.	
FIRST ROMAN. This will I carry to Rome.	
FIRST SENATOR. All have not offended;	
FIRST SENATOR. I like this well; he will return again.	
FIRST SENATOR. My lord, you have my voice to't: the fault's bloody.	
FIRST SENATOR. Now, Captain?	
FIRST SENATOR. Sit, Coriolanus, never shame to hear	
FIRST SENATOR. We are for law: he dies. Urge it no more	
FIRST SERVANT. But more of thy news!	
FIRST SERVANT. Nay, not so neither; but I take him to be the	
FIRST SERVANT. What an arm he has! He turn'd me about with his	
FIRST SERVING-MAN. It is the noble Duke of Gloucester.	
FIRST SOLDIER. 'Demand of him of what strength they are a-foot.'	
FIRST SOLDIER. 'First demand of him how many horse the Duke is	
FIRST SOLDIER. He's the devil.	
FIRST SOLDIER. I perceive, sir, by our General's looks we shall be	
FIRST SOLDIER. I'll tell the news. Here comes the general.	
FIRST SOLDIER. If you could find out a country where but women were	
FIRST SOLDIER. If your life be saved, will you undertake to betray	
FIRST SOLDIER. See, they have shut him in.	
FIRST SOLDIER. Shall I set down your answer so?	
FIRST SOLDIER. Stand!	
FIRST SOLDIER. Well, that's set down.	
FIRST WATCH. Stand close and list him.	
FLAMINIUS. Faith, nothing but an empty box, sir, which in my lord's	
FLAMINIUS. I thank you, sir.	
FLAVIUS. All broken implements of a ruin'd house.	
FLAVIUS. Ay,	
FLAVIUS. Here, my lord.	
FLAVIUS. It is no matter; let no images	
FLAVIUS. My lord?	
FLEANCE, his son	
FLUELLEN. Aunchient Pistol, I do partly understand your meaning.	
FLUELLEN. Captain Jamy is a marvellous falorous gentleman, that is	
FLUELLEN. Eat, I pray you; will you have some more sauce to your	
FLUELLEN. Gower is a good captain, and is good knowledge and	
FLUELLEN. Kill the poys and the luggage! 'Tis expressly against the	
FLUELLEN. To the mines! Tell you the Duke it is not so good to come	
FLUELLEN. Up to the breach, you dogs!	
FLUELLEN. Your Majesty hear now, saving your Majesty's manhood,	
FOOL. Look you, here comes my mistress' page.	
FOOL. She's e'en setting on water to scald such chickens as you	
FOOL. Will you leave me there?	
FORD. And as wicked as his wife?	
FORD. Do you think there is truth in them?	
FORD. Empty the basket, I say.	
FORD. I shall find you anon.	
FORD. I will never mistrust my wife again, till thou art able	
FORD. I would you knew Ford, sir, that you might avoid him	
FORD. I'll prat her.  [Beating him]  Out of my door, you	
FORD. If I do find it-well.	
FORD. Master Page, as I am a man, there was one convey'd	
FORD. Nay, I'll to him again, in name of Brook;	
FORD. So say I too, sir.	
FORD. Though Page be a secure fool, and stands so firmly on	
FORD. Well said, brazen-face; hold it out. Come forth, sirrah.	
FORD. What name, sir?	
FORESTER. Yes, madam, fair.	
FOURTH GENTLEMAN. The town is empty; on the brow o' the sea	
FREDERICK. Bear him away. What is thy name, young man?	
FRENCH KING. Nor this I have not, brother, so denied	
FRENCH KING. Or else what follows?	
FRENCH SOLDIER. O, pardonnez-moi!	
FROTH. Here in Vienna, sir.	
FROTH. Yes, an't please you, sir.	
Fain would I woo her, yet I dare not speak.	
Fair fall the bones that took the pains for me!-	
Fair maid, send forth thine eye. This youthful parcel	
Fairing the foul with art's false borrowed face,	
Fairness which strikes the eye-	
Fal. Ah, no more of that, Hal, an thou lovest me!	
Fal. And unbound the rest, and then come in the other.	
Fal. Bardolph, get thee before to Coventry; fill me a bottle of	
Fal. Both which I have had; but their date is out, and therefore	
Fal. Embowell'd? If thou embowel me to-day, I'll give you leave to	
Fal. No, I'll be sworn. I make as good use of it as many a man doth	
Fal. Well said, Hal! to it, Hal! Nay, you shall find no boy's play	
Fal. Well, thou wilt be horribly chid to-morrow when thou comest to	
Fal. What, art thou mad? art thou mad? Is not the truth the truth?	
Fal. You have hit it.	
Fal. Zounds, where thou wilt, lad! I'll make one. An I do not, call	
Fall like amazing thunder on the casque	
Falls in a trance.	
Falls.	
False fiend, avoid!       Thunder and lightning. Exit SPIRIT	
Falsely to draw me in these vile suspects.	
Fan you into despair! Have the power still	
Fann'd with the eastern wind, turns to a crow	
Farewell! Othello's occupation's gone!	
Farewell, a long farewell, to all my greatness!	
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.	
Farewell, and take her; but direct thy feet	
Farewell, dear mother.	
Farewell.	
Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!	
Fashion'd to Beatrice.	
Fast foe to th' plebeii, your voices might	
Fatal this marriage, cancelling your fame,	
Fathers that wear rags	
Fear not, Cesario, take thy fortunes up;	
Fed in heart, whose flames aspire,	
Feed arrogance and are the proud man's fees.	
Feeds on his wonder, keep, himself in clouds,	
Fell by our servants, by those men we lov'd most-	
Fell over the threshold and broke my shin.	
Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more	
Fetch in our wood, and serves in offices	
Fetch me that flow'r, the herb I showed thee once.	
Few come within the compass of my curse-	
Fie on thee, wretch! 'tis pity that thou liv'st	
Fields between Dartford and Blackheath	
Fields near Saint Albans	
Fight, gentlemen of England! Fight, bold yeomen!	
Filling the air with swords advanc'd and darts,	
Find cause in Caesar.	
Finger of birth-strangled babe	
First tried our soldiership. He did look far	
First will I see the coronation;	
First, the fair reverence of your Highness curbs me	
Fit I meet them.                   [Advancing from his cave]	
Fit for the mountains and the barbarous caves,	
Five hundred were but yesterday dubb'd knights.	
Five times redeem'd from death. I do not know	
Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fix'd,	
Flaminius, honest Flaminius, you are very respectively welcome,	
Florence. The DUKE's palace	
Flourish. Enter EDWARD, RICHARD, and MONTAGUE	
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD sick, QUEEN ELIZABETH, DORSET, RIVERS,	
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD, attended; LADY	
Flourish. Enter KING, COUNTESS, LAFEU, the two FRENCH LORDS, with ATTENDANTS	
Flourish. Enter POMPEY and MENAS at one door, with drum and trumpet;	
Flourish. Enter the DUKE OF FLORENCE, BERTRAM, PAROLLES, SOLDIERS,	
Flourish. Enter the KING, EXETER, GLOUCESTER, WARWICK, SOMERSET, and SUFFOLK;	
Flourish. Exit KING with train	
Flourish. Re-enter the EMPEROR, TAMORA	
Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us,	
Fly off our loves again!	
Follow such creatures. That you may, fair lady,	
Follow, and do me service.                            Exeunt	
Followers of Falstaff	
Fool.   That lord that counsell'd thee	
Fool. Cry to it, nuncle, as the cockney did to the eels when she	
Fool. Truth's a dog must to kennel; he must be whipp'd out, when	
For 'twas that hand that gave away my heart.	
For 'twere no charity; yet, to wash your blood	
For 'twould have anger'd any heart alive	
For Antony is but a limb of Caesar.	
For Fleance fled. Men must not walk too late.	
For God doth know, so shall the world perceive,	
For God's sake, fairly let her be entreated.	
For I am all the subjects that you have,	
For I by vow am so embodied yours	
For I can guess that by thy honest aid	
For I can smooth and fill his aged ears	
For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,	
For I have bought it with an hundred blows.	
For I have gained by't.	
For I have heard my grandsire say full oft	
For I have loaden me with many spoils,	
For I have more to commune with Bianca.                 Exit	
For I have murdered where I should not kill.	
For I have need of many orisons	
For I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth,	
For I must think of that which company	
For I myself will hunt this wolf to death.            Exeunt	
For I repent me that the Duke is slain.                 Exit	
For I will throw my glove to Death himself	
For I will touch thee but with reverent hands;	
For I'll not kill thee there, nor there, nor there;	
For Juliet's sake, for her sake, rise and stand!	
For Queen, a very caitiff crown'd with care;	
For Suffolk- he that can do all in all	
For Talbot means no goodness by his looks.	
For Time is like a fashionable host,	
For Warwick and his friends, God and Saint George!    Exeunt	
For Warwick was a bug that fear'd us all.	
For a second course of fight.	
For after the stout Earl Northumberland	
For all the country, in a general voice,	
For amplest credence.	
For any suit of pounds; and you, O fate!	
For better times to come. Friar, advise him;	
For both of you are birds of self-same feather.	
For breathing and exploit.	
For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch;	
For by these blessed candles of the night,	
For certainly thou art so near the gulf	
For divers unknown reasons, I beseech you,	
For do but stand upon the foaming shore,	
For each true word a blister, and each false	
For ere the six years that he hath to spend	
For ever hous'd where it gets possession.	
For every honour sitting on his helm,	
For fear of swallowing; but with nimble wing	
For folly that he wisely shows is fit;	
For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly	
For he is bound to sea, and stays but for it.	
For he is superstitious grown of late,	
For he that brought them, in the very heat	
For he that holds his kingdom holds the law;	
For he that steeps his safety in true blood	
For he will never follow anything	
For here he doth demand to have repaid	
For here the Troyans taste our dear'st repute	
For high feats done to th' crown, neither allied	
For his advantage that I dearly love.	
For how can tyrants safely govern home	
For husband shalt thou-	
For if Lord Percy thrive not, ere the King	
For if of joy, being altogether wanting,	
For in my mind you are much bound to him.	
For in thy shoulder do I build my seat,	
For it hath cow'd my better part of man!	
For it is as the air, invulnerable,	
For it is none but thine.	
For know, my love, as easy mayst thou fall	
For law is strict, and war is nothing more.	
For living idly here in pomp and ease,	
For many years thought dead, are now reviv'd,	
For me, by heaven, I bid you be assur'd,	
For mine own part unfold a dangerous speech,	
For mine's beyond beyond!-say, and speak thick-	
For mischiefs manifold, and sorceries terrible	
For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak	
For my part, I'll resign unto your Grace	
For never was a story of more woe	
For nothing can seem foul to those that win.	
For now our observation is perform'd,	
For now they kill me with a living death.	
For on my heart they tread now whilst I live,	
For our advantage on the bitter cross.	
For our approach shall so much dare the field	
For our beloved mother in her pains.	
For our proud Empress, mighty Tamora.	
For out o' doors he went without their help	
For purchasing but trouble. The thanks I give	
For shame, my liege, make them your precedent!	
For she hath no exchequer now but his,	
For she is sweeter than perfume itself	
For single combat in convenient place,	
For sorrow ends not when it seemeth done.	
For stale to catch these thieves.	
For suffering so the causes of our wreck.	
For sundry weighty reasons.	
For taking bribes here of the Sardians,	
For term of life thou art assured mine,	
For that I heard the clink and fall of swords,	
For that is her demand, and know her business?	
For that which thou hast sworn to do amiss	
For that, 'Forgive our Romans.' O, a kiss	
For the Lord's tokens on you do I see.	
For the demand of our neglected tribute.	
For the most worthiest fit! Give me your pardon.	
For the mutable, rank-scented meiny, let them	
For the whole world.	
For then this land was famously enrich'd	
For they are certain and unfallible.	
For they are thrifty honest men and such	
For they have grudged us contribution.	
For this effect defective comes by cause.	
For thou art fram'd of the firm truth of valour.	
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,	
For thou shalt find she will outstrip all praise,	
For thou thyself hast been a libertine,	
For though fond nature bids us all lament,	
For though it have holp madmen to their wits,	
For though they cannot greatly sting to hurt,	
For though usurpers sway the rule a while	
For thus deluding you.	
For thy part, I do wish thou wert a dog,	
For thy records, and what we see doth lie,	
For till I see them here, by doubtful fear	
For till thou speak thou shalt not pass from hence.	
For we are old, and on our quick'st decrees	
For we have now no thought in us but France,	
For we intend so to dispose you as	
For well thou know'st to my dear doting heart	
For were there hope to conquer them again	
For what offence have I this fortnight been	
For when I am reveng'd upon my charm,	
For women are shrews, both short and tall;	
For yet is hope of life and victory.	
For you in me can nothing worthy prove.	
For you must be our huswife.	
For your expenses and sufficient charge,	
For your fair safety. So, I kiss your hand.	
For your own quiet as to rectify	
For your own reasons turn into your bosoms	
For, by my fathers' reverend tomb, I vow	
For, having such a blessing in his lady,	
For, lo! within a ken our army lies-	
For, oh, love's bow	
For, were he, he had shown it in his looks.	
Forbid the sun to enter--like favourites,	
Forc'd to retire by fury of the wind.	
Ford, that search'd a hollow walnut for his wife's leman.'	
Ford.	
Forgive the comment that my passion made	
Forslow no longer; make we hence amain.               Exeunt	
Forsook his scene and ent'red in a brake;	
Forthwith from Ludlow the young prince be fet	
Fortune fall into the fire? Though Nature hath given us wit to	
Fortune makes Nature's natural the cutter-off of Nature's wit.	
Fortune reigns in gifts of the world, not in the lineaments of	
Foul-spoken coward, that thund'rest with thy tongue,	
Fran. Anon, anon, sir.                                 [Exit.]	
Fran. Anon, anon, sir.- Look down into the Pomgarnet, Ralph.	
Fran. Let me see. About Michaelmas next I shall be-	
France is a stable; we that dwell in't jades;	
France spreads his banners in our noiseless land,	
France. Before Orleans	
France. Plains near Angiers	
Free pardon to each man that has denied	
Freedom lives hence, and banishment is here.	
Frenchman to-morrow; or in the shape of two countries at once, as	
Fresh as a bridegroom; and his chin new reap'd	
Friar Laurence's cell.	
Friar [Francis], Hero.	
Friar. Arise; one knocks. Good Romeo, hide thyself.	
Friar. Hold! Get you gone, be strong and prosperous	
Friar. I will be brief, for my short date of breath	
Friar. O deadly sin! O rude unthankfulness!	
Friar. O woeful sympathy!	
Friar. Romeo!	
Friar. Stay then; I'll go alone. Fear comes upon me.	
Friar. That's a certain text.	
Fright me with urchin-shows, pitch me i' th' mire,	
From Love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.	
From all the slaughters, wretch, that thou hast done!	
From east to occident; cry out for service;	
From every meaner man.	
From every tree lop, bark, and part o' th' timber;	
From fasting maids, whose minds are dedicate	
From giving reins and spurs to my free speech;	
From glist'ring semblances of piety;	
From him I have express commandment	
From mine own library with volumes that	
From off my hands, here in the view of men	
From off the battlements of yonder tower,	
From off the head of this Athenian swain,	
From our companion, thrown into his grave,	
From that contented hap which I enjoy'd,	
From that great face of war, whose several ranges	
From the first corse till he that died to-day,	
From the most gracious regent of this land,	
From the spongy south to this part of the west,	
From thence unto the place of execution:	
From these our Henry lineally descends.	
From this day to the ending of the world,	
From top of honour to disgrace's feet?	
From whence this stream through muddy passages	
From where he should begin and end, but will	
Full fifteen hundred, besides common men.	
Full of crusadoes; and, but my noble Moor	
Full of high feeding, madly hath broke loose	
Full often, like a shag-hair'd crafty kern,	
Further than he is Caesar.	
GAOLER. Indeed, sir, he that sleeps feels not the toothache. But a	
GARDENER. Pardon me, madam; little joy have	
GARDINER. My lord, my lord, you are a sectary;	
GARDINER. Not yet, Sir Thomas Lovell. What's the matter?	
GARDINER. Receive him,	
GARDINER. With a true heart	
GARGRAVE. O Lord, have mercy on me, woeful man!	
GAUNT. God's is the quarrel; for God's substitute,	
GAUNT. Will the King come, that I may breathe my last	
GENERAL, and TITUS LARTIUS; between them,	
GENTLEMAN.  [Within]  Come back; what mean you?	
GENTLEWOMAN attending on Virgilia	
GENTLEWOMAN. Ay, but their sense is shut.	
GEORGE BEVIS, JOHN HOLLAND, DICK THE BUTCHER, SMITH THE WEAVER,	
GEORGE. O miserable age! Virtue is not regarded in handicraftsmen.	
GEORGE. While we devise fell tortures for thy faults.	
GEORGE. Yet let us all together to our troops,	
GLOUCESTER. 'Tis figur'd in my tongue.	
GLOUCESTER. Ah, Nell, forbear! Thou aimest all awry.	
GLOUCESTER. Ambitious churchman, leave to afflict my heart.	
GLOUCESTER. And for the proffer of my lord your master,	
GLOUCESTER. As much unto my good Lord Chamberlain!	
GLOUCESTER. Ay, Edward will use women honourably.	
GLOUCESTER. But I know none, and therefore am no beast.	
GLOUCESTER. Catesby, o'erlook the walls.	
GLOUCESTER. Curse not thyself, fair creature; thou art both.	
GLOUCESTER. England ne'er had a king until his time.	
GLOUCESTER. Fairer than tongue can name thee, let me have	
GLOUCESTER. Go you before, and I will follow you.	
GLOUCESTER. He lives that loves thee better than he could.	
GLOUCESTER. Humbly complaining to her deity	
GLOUCESTER. I Will not answer thee with words, but blows.	
GLOUCESTER. I was provoked by her sland'rous tongue	
GLOUCESTER. I'll hear no more. Die, prophet, in thy speech.	
GLOUCESTER. It is a quarrel most unnatural,	
GLOUCESTER. Naught to do with Mistress Shore! I tell thee,	
GLOUCESTER. No, to White Friars; there attend my coming.	
GLOUCESTER. Plantagenet.	
GLOUCESTER. That you might still have worn the petticoat	
GLOUCESTER. The Church! Where is it? Had not churchmen	
GLOUCESTER. The widow likes him not; she knits her brows.	
GLOUCESTER. Thine eyes, sweet lady, have infected mine.	
GLOUCESTER. To fight on Edward's party for the crown;	
GLOUCESTER. Wert thou not banished on pain of death?	
GLOUCESTER. Your beauty was the cause of that effect-	
GONZALO. Beseech you, sir, be merry; you have cause,	
GONZALO. I' th' commonwealth I would by contraries	
GONZALO. Well, I have done; but yet-	
GONZALO. Whether this be	
GOWER. Here comes his Majesty.	
GRATIANO, nobleman of Venice, brother of Brabantio	
GRATIANO.                                    Fie!	
GRATIANO. And I must to Lorenzo and the rest;	
GRATIANO. Love-news, in faith!	
GRATIANO. Nerissa, cheer yond stranger; bid her welcome.	
GRATIANO. Roderigo!	
GRATIANO. That will I do.	
GRATIANO. The woman falls; sure, he hath kill'd his wife.	
GRATIANO. Was not that letter from fair Jessica?	
GRATIANO. Well, keep me company but two years moe,	
GRATIANO. Yes, faith, my lord.	
GREEN. Besides, our nearness to the King in love	
GREMIO. And you are well met, Signior Hortensio.	
GREMIO. Here's packing, with a witness, to deceive us all!	
GRIFFITH. At last, with easy roads, he came to Leicester,	
GRIFFITH. I am most joyful, madam, such good dreams	
GRIFFITH. Noble madam,	
GRUMIO. A proper stripling, and an amorous!	
GRUMIO. And therefore 'tis call'd a sensible tale; and this cuff	
GRUMIO. I fear it is too choleric a meat.	
GRUMIO. I pray you, sir, let him go while the humour lasts. O' my	
GRUMIO. My master is grown quarrelsome. I should knock you first,	
GRUMIO. Nathaniel's coat, sir, was not fully made,	
GRUMIO. O, ay, Curtis, ay; and therefore fire, fire; cast on no	
GUIDERIUS. And our good his.	
GUIDERIUS. Let me end the story:	
GUIDERIUS. O sweetest, fairest lily!	
GUIDERIUS. Where?	
GUIDERIUS. With his own sword,	
Gain, be my lord, for I will worship thee.                   Exit	
Gaoler, look to him.	
Garter?	
Gasping for life under great Bolingbroke;	
Gather the sequel by that went before.	
Gent. 'Tis hot, it smokes.	
Gent. Alack, poor gentleman!	
Gent. One minded like the weather, most unquietly.	
Gent. The arbitrement is like to be bloody.	
Gentlemen. (within) Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!	
Gentles, do not reprehend.	
Gently to hear, kindly to judge, our play.               Exit	
Ghost of Hamlet's Father.	
Ghost. Swear.	
Give even way unto my rough affairs;	
Give him a little earth for charity!'	
Give him all kindness; I had rather have	
Give me a sword, I'll chop off my hands too,	
Give me an ounce of civet, good apothecary, to sweeten my	
Give me pen and ink. Sirrah, can you with a grace deliver up a	
Give me the gown. Where is thy instrument?	
Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.	
Give me thy fist, thy fore-foot to me give;	
Give me thy gold, if thou hast any gold;	
Give me thy hand! come on!	
Give me your hands, if we be friends,	
Glamis thou art, and Cawdor, and shalt be	
Glance at my credit with Hippolyta,	
Glend. A shorter time shall send me to you, lords;	
Glou. Go to; say you nothing. There is division betwixt the Dukes,	
Glou. He that will think to live till he be old,	
Glou. Here, take this Purse, thou whom the heavens' plagues	
Glou. I know not, madam. 'Tis too bad, too bad!	
Glou. I would have all well betwixt you.                 Exit.	
Glou. In, fellow, there, into th' hovel; keep thee warm.	
Glou. Know'st thou the way to Dover?	
Glou. No? What needed then that terrible dispatch of it into your	
Glou. The trick of that voice I do well remember.	
Gloucester's Castle.	
Gloucester, and Attendants].	
Go back, I warrant thee; but I'll catch thine eyes	
Go not away. What have you there, my friend?	
Go on and fetch our horses back again.	
Go presently inquire, and so will I,	
Go put it to the haste.	
Go sound thy trumpet in the market-place;	
Go take it hence; be gone, and say no more.	
Go thither, and with unattainted eye	
Go to th' creating a whole tribe of fops	
Go to the King; and let there be impawn'd	
Go we as well as haste will suffer us	
Go with me to my tent, where you shall see	
Go with me, Silvius.                                  Exeunt	
Go you and enter Harfleur; there remain,	
Go, go, provide.                                      Exeunt	
God 'a'mercy on his soul!	
God forbid! Where's this girl? What, Juliet!	
God give us leisure for these rites of love!	
God knows I will not do it to the death.	
God on my knees thou mayst be turn'd to hobnails. [Here they	
God pless your Majesty!	
God save you, pilgrim! Whither are bound?	
God's mercy, maiden! does it curd thy blood	
Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd	
Gon. At your choice, sir.	
Gon. Come, sir,	
Gon. Hear, me, my lord.	
Gon. No.	
Gon. Not only, sir, this your all-licens'd fool,	
Gon. Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter;	
Gon. So am I purpos'd.	
Gon. This admiration, sir, is much o' th' savour	
Good God! why should they mock poor fellows thus?	
Good cousins both, of York and Somerset,	
Good friend, go to him, for by this light of heaven,	
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desp'rate man.	
Good night, mother.	
Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.	
Good sir, draw near to me, I'll speak to him.	
Good things of day begin to droop and drowse,	
Gorg'd with the dearest morsel of the earth,	
Governs Lord Angelo, a man whose blood	
Gracious my lord, hard by here is a hovel;	
Grant I may ever love, and rather woo	
Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;	
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet	
Great Mars, I put myself into thy file;	
Great men oft die by vile bezonians:	
Greg. Do you quarrel, sir?	
Grew fat with feasting there.	
Grew, by our feeding to so great a bulk	
Grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath.	
Groom, and other Attendants	
Grown sere and tedious; yea, my gravity,	
Grows dainty of his worth, and in his tent	
Grows strong and great in substance and in power.	
Guarded with grandsires, babies, and old women,	
Guil. My lord, we were sent for.	
Guil. No, my lord; rather with choler.	
Guil. We will ourselves provide.	
Guil. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of	
HARCOURT. From enemies heaven keep your Majesty;	
HASTINGS, a pursuivant	
HASTINGS. Besides, the King hath wasted all his rods	
HASTINGS. Good faith, and when I met this holy man,	
HASTINGS. The tender love I bear your Grace, my lord,	
HASTINGS. Why, Master Mayor, why stand you in a doubt?	
HECTOR. Andromache, I am offended with you.	
HECTOR. I know your favour, Lord Ulysses, well.	
HECTOR. I would they could.	
HECTOR. O you, my lord? By Mars his gauntlet, thanks!	
HECTOR. O, 'tis fair play!	
HECTOR. You are amaz'd, my liege, at her exclaim.	
HELEN. And to make a sweet lady sad is a sour offence.	
HELEN. My Lord Pandarus!	
HELEN. My Lord Pandarus, honey-sweet lord-	
HELEN. You must not know where he sups.	
HELENA. And Hippolyta.	
HELENA. Ay, madam, knowingly.	
HELENA. If you misdoubt me that I am not she,	
HELENA. In everything I wait upon his will.	
HELENA. Lo, she is one of this confederacy!	
HELENA. Look on this letter, madam; here's my passport.	
HELENA. Madam, I had.	
HELENA. My lord your son made me to think of this,	
HELENA. O, I believe with him,	
HELENA. So methinks;	
HELENA. That you may well perceive I have not wrong'd you!	
HELENA. What's his else?	
HELENUS	
HELENUS. No marvel though you bite so sharp at reasons,	
HENRY PERCY, surnamed HOTSPUR, his son	
HENRY, PRINCE OF WALES, afterwards HENRY	
HERALD. Give way there, and go on.	
HERMIA. God speed fair Helena! Whither away?	
HERMIA. I understand not what you mean by this.	
HERMIA. O hell! to choose love by another's eyes.	
HERMIA. The more I hate, the more he follows me.	
HERMIA. What! with Lysander?	
HIPPOLYTA. I was with Hercules and Cadmus once	
HOLOFERNES. I do, sans question.	
HOLOFERNES. Quis, quis, thou consonant?	
HOLOFERNES. Satis quod sufficit.	
HOLOFERNES. The moon was a month old when Adam was no more,	
HOLOFERNES. The posterior of the day, most generous sir, is liable,	
HOLOFERNES. This is a gift that I have, simple, simple; a foolish	
HORTENSIO	
HORTENSIO.  [To LUCENTIO]  You may go walk and give me leave	
HORTENSIO. Her father is Baptista Minola,	
HORTENSIO. Petruchio, go thy ways, the field is won.	
HORTENSIO. Signior Baptista, will you be so strange?	
HORTENSIO. To her, widow!	
HORTENSIO. You'll leave his lecture when I am in tune?	
HORTENSIUS. And mine, my lord.	
HORTENSIUS. Faith, I perceive our masters may throw their caps at	
HORTENSIUS. Lucius! What, do we meet together?	
HOST. Disarm them, and let them question; let them keep	
HOST. Hue and cry, villain, go! Assist me, knight; I am	
HOST. I will hear you, Master Fenton; and I will, at the least,	
HOST. There's his chamber, his house, his castle, his	
HOST. Thou'rt an emperor-Caesar, Keiser, and Pheazar. I	
HOST. What wouldst thou have, boor? What, thick-skin?	
HOSTESS. Cheater, call you him? I will bar no honest man my house,	
HOSTESS. I am undone by his going; I warrant you, he's an	
HOSTESS. No, good Captain Pistol; not here, sweet captain.	
HOSTESS. Prithee, honey-sweet husband, let me bring thee to	
HOSTESS. Who knocks so loud at door? Look to th' door there,	
HOSTESS. Yea, good Master Snare; I have ent'red him and all.	
HUBERT.  [Aside]  His words do take possession of my bosom.-	
HUBERT. Badly, I fear. How fares your Majesty?	
HUBERT. Go, stand within; let me alone with him.	
HUBERT. Peace; no more. Adieu.	
HUBERT. Who's there? Speak, ho! speak quickly, or I shoot.	
HUME. Jesus preserve your royal Majesty!	
Had Henry got an empire by his marriage	
Had I as many sons as I have hairs,	
Had I the pow'r that some say Dian had,	
Had challeng'd pity of them. Was this a face	
Had he been Adam, he had tempted Eve.	
Had he done so, himself had home the crown,	
Had met ill luck?	
Had not an ear to hear my true time broke.	
Had rather have us win than him they follow.	
Had she a tongue to speak, now would she say	
Had she affections and warm youthful blood,	
Had three times slain th' appearance of the King,	
Had you not fully laid my state before me,	
Hadst thou, like us from our first swath, proceeded	
Ham. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier	
Ham. A dream itself is but a shadow.	
Ham. As th'art a man,	
Ham. At supper.	
Ham. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?	
Ham. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man	
Ham. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you;	
Ham. Between who?	
Ham. Do the boys carry it away?	
Ham. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.	
Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'	
Ham. Hear you, sir!	
Ham. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.	
Ham. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man	
Ham. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure.	
Ham. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in	
Ham. I mean, my head upon your lap?	
Ham. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.	
Ham. I would not hear your enemy say so,	
Ham. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not	
Ham. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and	
Ham. It will be short; the interim is mine,	
Ham. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not	
Ham. Methinks it is like a weasel.	
Ham. Mother, you have my father much offended.	
Ham. Nay, but swear't.	
Ham. Nay, that follows not.	
Ham. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty	
Ham. Nor the soles of her shoe?	
Ham. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:	
Ham. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else?	
Ham. Safely stow'd.	
Ham. Sir, I lack advancement.	
Ham. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,	
Ham. Sir, a whole history.	
Ham. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, I	
Ham. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.	
Ham. Speak. I am bound to hear.	
Ham. The King my father?	
Ham. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?	
Ham. What did you enact?	
Ham. What woman then?	
Ham. What, the fair Ophelia?	
Ham. Who commands them, sir?	
Ham. Why,	
Ham. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd	
Hang on her temples like a golden fleece,	
Hanging and wiving goes by destiny.	
Hangs one that gathers sampire- dreadful trade!	
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,	
Happy in this, she is not yet so old	
Hark! by the sound of drum you may perceive	
Hark, do you hear the sea?	
Hark, the Duke's trumpets! I know not why he comes.	
Harry the Fifth's the man. I speak the truth.	
Harry the King, Bedford and Exeter,	
Harry the Sixth bids thee despair and die.	
Harsh, featureless, and rude, barrenly perish:	
Hast thou not worldly pleasure at command	
Hast thou so crack'd and splitted my poor tongue	
Haste, signify so much; while we attend,	
Hate counsels not in such a quality.	
Hath been enacted through your enmity;	
Hath broke their hearts. March, noble lord,	
Hath charg'd you should not speak together.             Exit	
Hath clapp'd his tail between his legs and cried;	
Hath come so near creation? Move these eyes?	
Hath dimm'd your infant morn to aged night.	
Hath followed certain men unto this house.	
Hath from the number of his banish'd years	
Hath kill'd the flock of all affections else	
Hath look'd upon my passes. Then, good Prince,	
Hath made the flinty and steel couch of war	
Hath not that honour in't it had; for where	
Hath not yet lighted, and our safest way	
Hath pass'd in safety through the narrow seas	
Hath proudly flow'd in vanity till now.	
Hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be done	
Hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance	
Hath seiz'd the wasteful King. O, what pity is it	
Hath sent a letter to his father's house.	
Hath show'd him gold; my life is spann'd already.	
Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy	
Hath sullied all his gloss of former honour	
Hath ta'en your part- to have so much to do	
Hath this brave manage, this career, been run.	
Hath with his forged letters- damn'd Pisanio-	
Hath wrought the mure that should confine it in	
Hath yet a kind of medicine in itself	
Hath yet the deputy sent my brother's pardon?	
Hautboys.	
Have I commandment on the pulse of life?	
Have I in such a prison.	
Have I lik'd several women, never any	
Have I not heard these islanders shout out	
Have I not pawn'd to you my majesty?	
Have I not seen dwellers on form and favour	
Have at you with a proverb: Shall I set in my staff?	
Have been as bondmen to thy sovereignty.	
Have been beholding to him in his life;	
Have been mine so that evermore they pointed	
Have broke their backs with laying manors on 'em	
Have by my hands of life bereaved him.	
Have chose as umpire of their mutiny.	
Have ever made me sour my patient cheek	
Have felt the worst of death's destroying wound	
Have follow'd both my fortunes faithfully;	
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated	
Have holp to make this rescue?	
Have knit again, and fleet, threat'ning most sea-like.	
Have laid most heavy hand.	
Have laid this woe here. O, 'tis pregnant, pregnant!	
Have letters from me to some friends that will	
Have lost a brace of kinsmen. All are punish'd.	
Have lost my daughter.	
Have notice what we purpose. I shall break	
Have of their puissance made a little taste.	
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,	
Have slime upon them, such as th' aspic leaves	
Have stoop'd my neck under your injuries	
Have there injointed them with an after fleet.	
Have too a woman's heart, which ever yet	
Have vanquish'd the resistance of her youth	
Have we march'd on without impediment;	
Have we thus met? O, never say hereafter	
Have wish'd that noble Brutus had his eyes.	
Have you yourselves, Somerset, Buckingham,	
Have, sure, more lack of reason. What would you say?	
Having first seiz'd his books; or with a log	
Having neither subject, wealth, nor diadem.	
Having often of your open bounty tasted,	
He bade me store up as a triple eye,	
He cares not for your weeping. Speak thou, boy;	
He could so quickly cut the Ionian sea,	
He did discharge a horrible oath, whose tenour	
He dies that touches any of this fruit	
He dies upon my scimitar's sharp point	
He doth object I am too great of birth;	
He dreamt the boar had razed off his helm.	
He fighteth as one weary of his life.	
He fires the proud tops of the eastern pines	
He gave the stablishment of Egypt; made her	
He gave you all the duties of a man;	
He has not with him.	
He hates our sacred nation; and he rails,	
He hath a drug of mine. I pray his absence	
He hath spoken true. The very dice obey him;	
He hath the jewel of my life in hold,	
He heard the name of death.                 [A noise within]	
He is attended with a desperate train,	
He is in Rome.	
He knows no more of mine than I of yours;	
He labor'd in his country's wreck, I know not;	
He loves you, on my life, and holds you dear	
He makes me angry with him; for he seems	
He met the nightmare, and her nine fold;	
He might have took his answer long ago.	
He might not but refuse you; but he protests he loves you	
He ne'er lift up his hand but conquered.	
He ne'er pays after-debts, take it before.	
He pays the whole, and yet am I not free.	
He pleaded still not guilty, and alleged	
He shall again relate.	
He shall be executed presently.              Exeunt SENATORS	
He shall be lord of Lady Imogen,	
He shall live a man forbid.	
He solemnly had sworn that what he spoke	
He spieth Falstaff on the ground.	
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found	
He that a fool doth very wisely hit	
He that conceals him, death.	
He that helps him take all my outward worth.	
He that is robb'd, not wanting what is stol'n,	
He that stirs next to carve for his own rage	
He was from thence discharg'd? Sir, call to mind	
He was the wretched'st thing when he was young,	
He will remain so.	
He wills you, in the name of God Almighty,	
He'll make his cap co-equal with the crown.'	
He'll watch the horologe a double set,	
He's a coward and a coystrill that will not drink to my niece	
He's honest, on mine honour. God's blest Mother!	
He's truly valiant that can wisely suffer	
He's very likely now to fall from him	
He, but a Duke, would have his son a king,	
Hear me with patience but to speak a word.	
Hear me with patience.	
Hear nought from Rome in private. Your request?	
Hear, Nature, hear! dear goddess, hear!	
Heaven forgive him too!	
Heaven lay not my transgression to my charge!	
Heaven prosper our sport! No man means evil but the	
Heaven shield my mother play'd my father fair!	
Hector bade ask.	
Hector is dead; there is no more to say.	
Hector of Troy; the swain, Pompey the Great; the parish curate,	
Heir to the crown-meaning indeed his house,	
Hence will I to my ghostly father's cell,	
Her army is mov'd on.	
Her hair, what colour?	
Her husband's to Aleppo gone, master the Tiger;	
Her love is not the hare that I do hunt;	
Her love, for whose dear love I rise and fall.	
Her mother is the lady of the house.	
Her suit is now to repossess those lands;	
Her words y-clad with wisdom's majesty,	
Her worth, being mounted on the wind,	
Here PROCULEIUS and two of the guard ascend the	
Here a cry of hounds, and wind horns in a peal.	
Here are the heads of thy two noble sons;	
Here comes Baptista. Set your countenance, sir.	
Here comes the lady. O, so light a foot	
Here comes your uncle.	
Here in the lobby.	
Here in the thigh. Can I bear that with patience	
Here is a letter will say somewhat. Good hearts, what ado	
Here is a man-but 'tis before his face;	
Here is my throne, bid kings come bow to it.	
Here is return'd my Lord of Westmoreland.	
Here made by th' Roman; great the answer be	
Here stands my other son, a banish'd man,	
Here they both call him. The Drawer stands amazed,	
Here's that which is too weak to be a sinner, honest water, which	
Here's to thy health.	
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.	
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,	
Hermes.	
Hero.	
Hero. No, pray thee, good Meg, I'll wear this.	
Hero. O, God defend me! How am I beset!	
Hides my heart. So, let me hear you speak.	
Hie hence, and tell him so. Yet stay awhile,	
High birth, vigour of bone, desert in service,	
High order in this great solemnity.                   Exeunt	
High-reaching Buckingham grows circumspect.	
High-stomach'd are they both and full of ire,	
Himself to Rome; his spirit is come in,	
His act did not o'ertake his bad intent,	
His bleeding sword 'twixt England and fair France.	
His body couched in a curious bed,	
His body to that pleasant country's earth,	
His brandish'd sword did blind men with his beams;	
His countenance, like richest alchemy,	
His country's peace.	
His fairest daughter is contaminated.	
His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.	
His faults lie open to the laws; let them,	
His fits, his frenzy, and his bitterness?	
His guard have brought him thither.	
His honour. O, thine honour, Lewis, thine honour!	
His hours fill'd up with riots, banquets, sports;	
His humorous predominance; yea, watch	
His jewish heart. Therefore, I do beseech you,	
His knell rung out, his judgment, he was stirr'd	
His lands to me, and took it on his death	
His man enters with his boots	
His mistress' picture; which by his tongue being made,	
His own life hung upon the staff he threw-	
His powerful sound within an organ weak;	
His present and your pains we thank you for.	
His private arbors, and new-planted orchards,	
His semblable, yea, himself, Timon disdains.	
His skill in the construction.	
His statutes cancell'd, and his treasure spent;	
His tedious measures with the unbated fire	
His tongue obey'd his hand. Who were below him	
His will is most malignant, and it stretches	
His wonders and his praises do contend	
Hither to London, to be crown'd our King.	
Hitting a grosser quality, is cried up	
Hold, Tybalt! Good Mercutio!	
Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground.	
Holds from all soldiers chief majority	
Holy Gonzalo, honourable man,	
Holy and heavenly thoughts still counsel her;	
Home to the Centaur, with the gold you gave me.	
Honest Iago hath ta'en order for't.	
Honour is cudgell'd. Well, bawd I'll turn,	
Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind	
Hoo! hearts, tongues, figures, scribes, bards, poets, cannot	
Hor [aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another	
Hor. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew	
Hor. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;	
Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination.	
Hor. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season	
Hor. My lord, the King your father.	
Hor. No, by no means!	
Hor. Not when I saw't.	
Hor. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak!	
Hor. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.	
Hor. What's that, my lord?	
Hor. You will lose this wager, my lord.	
Host. He? Alas, he is poor; he hath nothing.	
Host. My lord, I pray you hear me.	
Host. Why, Sir John, what do you think, Sir John? Do you think I	
Hot. 'Tis the next way to turn tailor or be redbreast-teacher. An	
Hot. An if the devil come and roar for them,	
Hot. Come, Kate, thou art perfect in lying down. Come, quick,	
Hot. Did you beg any, God forbid!	
Hot. I smell it. Upon my life, it will do well.	
Hot. My cousin Vernon! welcome, by my soul.	
Hot. My liege, I did deny no prisoners.	
Hot. My uncle is return'd.	
Hot. The King hath many marching in his coats.	
Hot. The King is kind; and well we know the King	
Hot. What may the King's whole battle reach unto?	
Hot. Why say you so? Looks he no for supply?	
How I have ever lov'd the life removed,	
How can she be with him? When was she miss'd?	
How can the law forbid my tongue to curse?	
How can these things in me seem scorn to you,	
How do I thank thee that this carnal cur	
How do you, Desdemona?	
How doth the good knight? May I ask how my lady his wife doth?	
How earnestly he cast his eyes upon me!	
How fain, like Pilate, would I wash my hands	
How far I am from the desire of this.	
How found you him?	
How furious and impatient they be,	
How he did seem to dive into their hearts	
How heavy do I journey on the way,	
How ill-beseeming is it in thy sex	
How irksome is this music to my heart!	
How like a deer strucken by many princes	
How many a holy and obsequious tear	
How many inches doth fill up one mile.	
How much low peasantry would then be gleaned	
How much more is his life in value with him!	
How much she loves me- O, the kindest Kate!	
How much we do o'er-count thee.	
How now! Why start'st thou? What, doth death affright?	
How now! who is it?	
How now, Roderigo!	
How now, a kiss in fee-farm! Build there, carpenter; the air is	
How now, fair maid?	
How now, my metal of India!	
How now?	
How pitiful I deserve--	
How shall I honour thee for this success?	
How shall I know if I do choose the right?	
How soon my sorrow hath destroy'd my face.	
How swift his ship.	
How tame, when men and women are alone,	
How terrible in constant resolution,	
How they affect the house and claim of York.	
How to lament the cause. I'll beg one boon,	
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable	
How went he under him?	
How wildly then walks my estate in France!	
How you can frown, than spend a fawn upon 'em	
How your state stands i' th' world, with the whole world?	
Howe'er repented after.	
However it is spread in general name,	
Hume, if you take not heed, you shall go near	
Hung on our driving boat, I saw your brother,	
I Pandulph, of fair Milan cardinal,	
I am a mother to you.	
I am a poor fall'n man, unworthy now	
I am a soldier and unapt to weep	
I am afraid; and yet I'll venture it.	
I am arriv'd for fruitful Lombardy,	
I am as poor as you.	
I am but as a guiltless messenger.	
I am cold myself. Where is this straw, my fellow?	
I am combined by a sacred vow,	
I am fear'd in field and town.	
I am fire and air; my other elements	
I am for the air; this night I'll spend	
I am glad at soul I have no other child;	
I am in all affected as yourself;	
I am no less in blood than thou art, Edmund;	
I am not well; send the deed after me	
I am skilless of; but, by my modesty,	
I am so sorry for my trespass made	
I am the drudge, and toil in your delight;	
I am the last of noble Edward's sons,	
I am the shadow of poor Buckingham,	
I am thy prisoner. Wilt thou suffer them	
I am to get a man- whate'er he be	
I am yet come to town. There's for your silence.	
I am your better, traitors as ye are;	
I am your butt, and I abide your shot.	
I am your neighbour, and was suitor first.	
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of Thomas Grey,	
I bade the rascal knock upon your gate,	
I beg for justice, which thou, Prince, must give.	
I beg the law, the law upon his head.	
I beseech your Majesty give me leave to go;	
I came to kill thee, cousin, and bear hence	
I came to serve a king and not a duke.	
I can no further crawl, no further go;	
I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe.	
I cannot but remember such things were	
I cannot choose but ever weep the friend.	
I cannot justify whom the law condemns.	
I care no more for than I do for heaven,	
I care not what, so it be wholesome food.	
I come no more to make you laugh; things now	
I come, to learn how you have dealt for him;	
I could not miss my way. Will poor folks lie,	
I could recover the shore, five and thirty leagues, off	
I cut them off; and had a purpose now	
I dare and must deny it. Now I feel	
I dare speak it to myself, for it is not vain-glory for a man and	
I did confess it, and exactly begg'd	
I did never know so full a voice issue from so empty a heart; but	
I do arrest thee, traitor, of high treason;	
I do believe her though I know she lies,	
I do believe that violent hands were laid	
I do beseech you give him leave to go.	
I do beseech you, know me.	
I do not like the man; had he been lay, my lord,	
I do not love to look on.	
I do not say I am one; but I have a hand. Why tribute? Why should	
I do retort the 'solus' in thy bowels;	
I fear I wrong the honorable men	
I fear the trust Othello puts him in	
I fear there will a worse come in his place.	
I feel my master's passion! This slave	
I find myself a traitor with the rest;	
I for a Clarence weep, so doth not she.	
I for an Edward weep, so do not they.	
I found a friend; and sure as death I swore	
I from my mistress come to you in post;	
I gave my love a ring, and made him swear	
I give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange.	
I give to baser life. So, have you done?	
I ha't!	
I had forestall'd this dear and deep rebuke	
I had had to have made new liveries, I would have bestowed the	
I had in charge at my depart for France,	
I had my father's signet in my purse,	
I had myself twenty angels given me this morning; but I	
I had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth	
I had rather thou shouldst live while nature will	
I have a little yet to say. Look there, my lords;	
I have a strange infirmity, which is nothing	
I have a way to will their loves again;	
I have been begging sixteen years in court-	
I have been troubled in my sleep this night,	
I have curs'd them without cause.                   [Kneels]	
I have forgot my part and I am out,	
I have fought with thee; so often hast thou beat me;	
I have great hope in that; for in her youth	
I have had a dream, past the wit of man to say what dream it was.	
I have no ears to his request. The Queen	
I have not breath'd almost since I did see it.	
I have not din'd to-day.	
I have stol'n nought; nor would not though I had found	
I have with exact view perus'd thee, Hector,	
I have't. It is engender'd. Hell and night	
I have, as when the sun doth light a storm,	
I hear a tongue, shriller than all the music,	
I humbly thank his Grace; and from these shoulders,	
I kill'd the slave that was a-hanging thee.	
I knit my handkerchief about your brows-	
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen	
I know not by what power I am made bold,	
I know not the contents; but, as I guess	
I know she is not; for this match made up	
I know the young King is sick for me. Let us take any man's	
I know thee well, though never seen before.	
I know, ere thy will have me go to ward,	
I lay unto the grievous charge of others.	
I like it well. France, shall we knit our pow'rs	
I look'd upon her with a soldier's eye,	
I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,	
I may not evermore acknowledge thee,	
I may not suffer you to visit them.	
I may, for some things true wherein my youth	
I mean to stride your steed, and at all times	
I mock my name, great king, to flatter thee.	
I must aboard to-morrow.	
I must acquaint you that I have receiv'd	
I must be gone and live, or stay and die.	
I must change arms at home and give the distaff	
I must examine thee. What is thy name?	
I must from this enchanting queen break off.	
I must go seek some dewdrops here,	
I must obey.	
I must up-fill this osier cage of ours	
I nam'd my knell, whilst I sit meditating	
I ne'er saw Syracuse in my life.	
I need no more weight than mine own bowels. I have led my	
I never dealt better since I was a man. All would not do. A	
I never gave you aught.	
I never prosper'd since I forswore myself at primero. Well,	
I only swore to study with your Grace,	
I ought to know of; and, upon my knees,	
I pray for no man but myself.	
I pray you, will you take him by the arm?	
I prithee go and get me some repast;	
I prithee, Strato, stay thou by thy lord.	
I prithee, sister Kate, untie my hands.	
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,	
I promis'd you redress of these same grievances	
I ran it through, even from my boyish days	
I rather will suspect the sun with cold	
I ratify this my rich gift. O Ferdinand!	
I render for my brethren's obsequies;	
I return'd you an empty messenger.	
I saw her hand; she has a leathern hand,	
I saw him at the Duke Alencon's once;	
I saw him down; thrice up again, and fighting;	
I saw the handkerchief.	
I saw their weapons drawn-there was a noise,	
I say she never did invent this letter:	
I see their antique pen would have expressed,	
I see, as in a map, the end of all.	
I sent the King? Is there no way to cure this?	
I serv'd my King, he would not in mine age	
I shak'd you, sir, and cried; as mine eyes open'd,	
I shall find time, Cassius, I shall find time.	
I shall have such a life!	
I shall not know him. Therefore never, never	
I should do so in honour. I am in this	
I should have lost the worth of it in gold.	
I should not for my life but weep with him,	
I speak my good Lord Cardinal to this point,	
I speak of Africa and golden joys.	
I spurn thee like a cur out of my way.	
I spy life peering; but I dare not say	
I stumbled when I saw. Full oft 'tis seen	
I swear 'tis better to be much abused	
I swear, I am not that I play. Are you the lady of the house?	
I take it kindly. Yet be well assur'd	
I talk but idly, and you laugh at me.	
I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness.	
I tell you, he that can lay hold of her	
I tell you, younglings, not Enceladus,	
I thank you, honest gentlemen. Good night.	
I that did never weep now melt with woe	
I then did ask of her her changeling child;	
I think upon't, I think, I smell't, O villainy!	
I thought my mother and my brother York	
I thought so then. I'll kill myself for grief.	
I thought that all things had been savage here,	
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,	
I thought to crush him in an equal force,	
I thought to have ta'en you at the Porpentine;	
I thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated	
I trust I may not trust thee, for thy word	
I vow'd, base knight, when I did meet thee next	
I was a pack-horse in his great affairs,	
I was born free as Caesar, so were you;	
I weigh my friend's affection with mine own.	
I will attend the Queen.	
I will be bound to pay it ten times o'er	
I will change it.	
I will confess she was not Edward's daughter.	
I will embrace him with a soldier's arm,	
I will encounter with Andronicus,	
I will have more time to prepare me, or they shall beat out my	
I will kneel to him.	
I will lead forth my soldiers to the plain,	
I will not ask again. Close villain,	
I will not live to be accounted Warwick.	
I will not meet with you to-morrow night.	
I will not reason what is meant hereby,	
I will not tarry; no, nor ever more	
I will not to wedding with thee.	
I will not wish ye half my miseries:	
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well.	
I will stir up in England some black storm	
I will withdraw; but this intrusion shall,	
I will your serious and great business scant	
I wish you all the joy that you can wish,	
I would be friends with you, and have your love,	
I would be glad to see it.	
I would be good to thee.	
I would breed from hence occasions, and I shall,	
I would fain dissuade him, but he will not be entreated. Speak to	
I would give it every foot to have this face!	
I would have made them skip. I am old now,	
I would it were my fault to sleep so soundly.	
I would it would make you invisible.	
I would not be a young count in your way	
I would not care, I then would be content;	
I would not spend another such a night	
I would o'erstare the sternest eyes that look,	
I would say the truth; but to accuse him so,	
I would she were in heaven, so she could	
I would thou hadst told me of another father.	
I would to God all strifes were well compounded.	
I would wish me only he.	
I wrote him Imogen was slain. 'Tis strange.	
I' th' East my pleasure lies.	
I' th' cave wherein they bow, their thoughts do hit	
I'd not have given a doit. Hark, how they joy!	
I'ld whistle her off and let her down the wind	
I'll after them.                                        Exit	
I'll be sworn my pocket was pick'd. Go to, you are a woman, go!	
I'll be your father and your brother too;	
I'll by a sign give notice to our friends,	
I'll canvass thee in thy broad cardinal's hat,	
I'll come to you anon.	
I'll fetch the general's surgeon. [To Bianca.] For you, mistress,	
I'll find some cunning practice out of hand	
I'll follow you and tell what answer	
I'll have a starling shall be taught to speak	
I'll knock elsewhere, to see if they'll disdain me.	
I'll leave you.	
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.-	
I'll make a voyage to the Holy Land,	
I'll make my heaven to dream upon the crown,	
I'll mend it with a largess. Take your paper too,	
I'll never wrestle for prize more. And so, God keep your worship!	
I'll not be made a soft and dull-ey'd fool,	
I'll not bear mine own flesh so far afoot again for all the coin	
I'll not endure him.	
I'll once more feast the rascals.	
I'll pay it instantly with all my heart.	
I'll rob none but myself; and let me die,	
I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye,	
I'll send her straight away. To-morrow	
I'll set thee in a shower of gold, and hail	
I'll show you here at large. Hark, good mine host:	
I'll speak no more but 'Vengeance rot you all!'	
I'll strike thee dead. Put up thy sword betime;	
I'll through and through you. And, thou great-siz'd coward,	
I'll to the friar to know his remedy.	
I'll to the wars, she to her single sorrow.	
I'll turn to sparks of fire.	
I'll use you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter,	
I'll warrant you, when I say so, she looks as pale as any clout	
I'll wink and couch; no man their works must eye.	
I, as a child, will go by thy direction.	
I, her frail son, amongst my brethren mortal,	
I, that denied thee gold, will give my heart.	
I, that have neither pity, love, nor fear.	
I- measuring his affections by my own,	
I?	
IACHIMO. I am glad to be constrain'd to utter that	
IACHIMO. Not a whit,	
IACHIMO. The chimney	
IACHIMO. The crickets sing, and man's o'er-labour'd sense	
IACHIMO. With all my heart.                             Exeunt	
IACHIMO. With five times so much conversation I should get ground	
IACHIMO. Yes, I beseech; or I shall short my word	
IACHIMO. [Kneeling] I am down again;	
IAGO.                                  Why, go to then.	
IAGO.                       Good sir, be a man;	
IAGO.                     Call up her father,	
IAGO. And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?	
IAGO. Demand me nothing; what you know, you know.	
IAGO. Gentlemen all, I do suspect this trash	
IAGO. I am very glad to see you, signior;	
IAGO. I learned it in England, where indeed they are most potent in	
IAGO. I warrant thee. Meet me by and by at the citadel. I must	
IAGO. It is Brabantio. General, be advised,	
IAGO. Kill men i' the dark! Where be these bloody thieves?	
IAGO. O villainous! I have looked upon the world for four times	
IAGO. O, did he so? I charge you, go with me.	
IAGO. She did deceive her father, marrying you;	
IAGO. Signior Gratiano? I cry you gentle pardon;	
IAGO. There is no other way; 'tis she must do't.	
IAGO. What are you here that cry so grievously?	
IAGO. What is your pleasure, madam? How is't with you?	
IAGO. What say'st thou, noble heart?	
IAGO. What was he that you followed with your sword?	
IAGO. What, are you mad? I charge you, get you home.	
IAGO. Why, there's no remedy. 'Tis the curse of service,	
IAGO. Will you hear't again?	
IAGO. [Aside to Roderigo.] Away, I say; go out and cry a mutiny.	
IAGO. [Snatching it.] Why, what is that to you?	
IMOGEN. A father cruel and a step-dame false;	
IMOGEN. Good morrow, sir. You lay out too much pains	
IMOGEN. I am nothing; or if not,	
IMOGEN. I would have broke mine eyestrings, crack'd them but	
IMOGEN. My good master,	
IMOGEN. Nay, stay a little.	
IMOGEN. No, my lord;	
IMOGEN. Past hope, and in despair; that way past grace.	
IMOGEN. Profane fellow!	
IMOGEN. Richard du Champ. [Aside] If I do lie, and do	
IMOGEN. That headless man	
IMOGEN. Thou art all the comfort	
IMOGEN. Thou told'st me, when we came from horse, the place	
IMOGEN. [Reads] 'He is one of the noblest note, to whose	
IRAS. O the good gods!	
ISABELLA. Be ready, Claudio, for your death to-morrow.	
ISABELLA. By course of justice!	
ISABELLA. Ha! little honour to be much believ'd,	
ISABELLA. I would to heaven I had your potency,	
ISABELLA. Let me hear you speak farther; I have spirit to do	
ISABELLA. My power, alas, I doubt!	
ISABELLA. O worthy Duke,	
ISABELLA. Save your honour!              Exeunt all but ANGELO	
ISABELLA. So you must be the first that gives this sentence,	
ISABELLA. That in the captain's but a choleric word	
ISABELLA. Yet show some pity.	
Iago from behind wounds Cassio in the leg, and exit.	
If 'a be in debt and theft, and a sergeant in the way,	
If 'gainst yourself you be incens'd, we'll put you-	
If Caesar carelessly but nod on him.	
If Hercules and Lichas play at dice	
If I can catch him once upon the hip,	
If I could write the beauty of your eyes,	
If I myself, there is no hour so fit	
If I should pay you for't as 'tis extoll'd,	
If I speak true! If hollowly, invert	
If I would yield him my virginity	
If Nature (sovereign mistress over wrack)	
If a hart do lack a hind,	
If any friend will pay the sum for him,	
If any order might be thought upon.	
If any power pities wretched tears,	
If at Philippi we do face him there,	
If broken, then it is no fault of mine;	
If death be so apparent, then both fly.	
If drink rock not his cradle.	
If e'er thou look'dst on majesty.	
If fortune serve me, I'll requite this kindness.	
If friend or foe, let him be gently used.	
If he be gone he'll make his grave a bed;	
If he do break the smallest particle	
If he see aught in you that makes him like,	
If he were mad, he would not plead so coldly.	
If it find heaven, must find it out tonight.           Exit.	
If law, authority, and power, deny not,	
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!	
If not, I'll die your maid. To be your fellow	
If not, I'll use the advantage of my power	
If not, why then this parting was well made.	
If now 'twere fit to do't. At the first sight	
If of my freedom 'tis the main part, take	
If quiet life be best; sweeter to you	
If seriously I may convey my thoughts	
If she be fair and wise, fairness and wit,	
If she be false, O, then heaven mocks itself!	
If she first meet the curled Antony,	
If so, my eyes are oft'ner wash'd than hers.	
If sympathy of love unite our thoughts.	
If that be true, I shall see my boy again;	
If that my cousin king be King in England,	
If that our noble father were alive?	
If that she learn not of her eye to look.	
If the true concord of well-tuned sounds,	
If they be senators; and they are no less,	
If they had swallow'd poison 'twould appear	
If they shall fail, I with mine enemies	
If they will fight with us, bid them come down	
If they'll do neither, we will come to them	
If thou be found by me; thou art but dead.	
If thou be pleas'd with this my sudden choice,	
If thou but think'st him wrong'd and makest his ear	
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,	
If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemn'd,	
If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee	
If thou dost nod, thou break'st thy instrument;	
If thou hadst not been born the worst of men,	
If thou receive me for thy warlike mate.	
If thou spy'st any, run and bring me word;	
If thou stand excommunicate and curs'd?	
If thy rare qualities, sweet gentleness,	
If thy sweet virtue answer not thy show.	
If time have any wrinkle graven there,	
If to preserve this vessel for my lord	
If underneath the standard of the French	
If we do meet again, why, we shall smile;	
If we do now make our atonement well,	
If we prevail, their heads shall pay for it.	
If what I now pronounce you have found true;	
If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.	
If wives do fall; say that they slack their duties	
If you come slack of former services,	
If you deny them, all the land will rue it.	
If you do chance to hear of that blind traitor,	
If you do find me foul in her report,	
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,	
If you forsake the offer of their love.	
If you have poison for me, I will drink it.	
If you have writ your annals true, 'tis there	
If you will take a homely man's advice,	
If you'll stand fast we'll beat them to their wives,	
If't be your pleasure and most wise consent,	
Immediately to marry; she hath consented.	
Implored your Highness' pardon, and set forth	
Importing the surrender of those lands	
Impose some service on me for thy love.	
Imprimis, we came down a foul hill, my master riding behind my	
In Cambria are we born, and gentlemen;	
In Egypt sits at dinner, and will make	
In England and in Ireland, not confessing	
In Ireland have I seen this stubborn Cade	
In Parthia did I take thee prisoner,	
In Richard's time, and posted day and night	
In Ross and Willoughby, wanting your company,	
In Troy, there lies the scene. From isles of Greece	
In a cowslip's bell I lie;	
In a great pool a swan's nest. Prithee think	
In a rich chair of state, opposing freely	
In acclamations hyperbolical,	
In all designs begun on earth below	
In all that I can do.	
In all this noble bevy, has brought with her	
In an imperial charge. But I shall crave your pardon;	
In any breast of strong authority	
In any case, the offer of the King.	
In any of our towns of garrison.	
In base appliances. This outward-sainted deputy,	
In blood of princes; and their wounded steeds	
In blood of those that had encount'red him.	
In braving arms against thy sovereign.	
In brief, sir, sith it your pleasure is,	
In common sense, sense saves another way.	
In daily thanks, that gave us such a prince;	
In dreadful secrecy impart they did,	
In dumb significants proclaim your thoughts.	
In entertainment to my princely queen.	
In eye of Imogen, that best	
In faith I do not love thee with mine eyes,	
In faith, they are as true of heart as we.	
In fewer offices, or at least desist	
In fine, delivers me to fill the time,	
In following him, I follow but myself;	
In forwarding this dear expedience.	
In further evil?	
In good set terms- and yet a motley fool.	
In hand, and hope of action; but we do learn,	
In happy time!	
In hateful practice. First, his integrity	
In her consists my happiness and thine;	
In his own change, or by ill officers,	
In his own conduct, purposely to take	
In humblest manner I require your Highness	
In leaden contemplation have found out	
In least speak most to my capacity.	
In levity. Since which time of five years	
In like conditions as our argument,	
In lists on Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,	
In me thou seest the glowing of such fire,	
In me thou seest the twilight of such day,	
In murders and in outrage boldly here;	
In nothing art thou black save in thy deeds,	
In our own natures frail and capable	
In our remove be thou at full ourself;	
In personal action, yet prodigious grown	
In process of the seasons have I seen,	
In purchasing the semblance of my soul	
In reckoning up the several devils' names	
In sequent toil all forwards do contend.	
In some reclusive and religious life,	
In sooth, I would you were a little sick,	
In state as wholesome as in state 'tis fit,	
In such a business give me leave to use	
In such a presence here to plead my thoughts;	
In such an honour; how may I deserve it,	
In tatt'red weeds, with overwhelming brows,	
In the great hand of God I stand, and thence	
In the line-grove which weather-fends your cell;	
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,	
In the old time of war, would shake the press,	
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,	
In the remembrance of so fair a dream.	
In the same fashion as you gave in charge;	
In the very end of harvest!	
In thee't had been good service. Thou must know	
In their best fortunes strong; but want will perjure	
In their nativity all truth appears.	
In thirteen battles Salisbury o'ercame;	
In this fine age were not thought flattery,	
In this sad wreck? How came't? Who is't? What art thou?	
In this uncivil and unjust extent	
In thy best robes uncovered on the bier	
In thy just proof repeals and reconciles thee.	
In undeserved extremes. See else yourself:	
In war was never lion rag'd more fierce,	
In what safe place you have bestow'd my money,	
In what vile part of this anatomy	
In which you, father, shall have foremost hand.	
In whose comparison all whites are ink	
In whose confine immured is the store,	
In yours they will, in you all hopes are lost.	
Indeed the instant action, a cause on foot-	
Induce you to the question on't, or ever	
Industrious soldiership.	
Infects the sound pine, and diverts his grain	
Inflam'd with Venus. Never did young man fancy	
Injurious Hermia! most ungrateful maid!	
Injurious distance should not stop my way,	
Intend a zealous pilgrimage to thee,	
Into Hey nonny, nonny.	
Into her womb convey sterility;	
Into his ruin'd ears, and thus deliver:	
Into this abbey, whither we pursu'd them;	
Into this scattered kingdom, who already,	
Into this sea of air.	
Into what pitch he please.	
Is Romeo slaught'red, and is Tybalt dead?	
Is a sharp wit match'd with too blunt a will,	
Is all thy comfort shut in Gloucester's tomb?	
Is as a fiend confin'd to tyrannize	
Is as the maiden's organ, shrill and sound,	
Is business of estate, in which we come	
Is but the seemly raiment of my heart,	
Is coming towards me, and my inward soul	
Is crept into the bosom of the sea;	
Is dear Lavinia, dearer than my soul.	
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,	
Is guilty of this lamentable chance! The lady stirs.	
Is he dispatch'd?	
Is it not well? What should you need of more?	
Is kindling coals that fires all my breast,	
Is lighted on poor Hastings' wretched head!	
Is like to lay upon us.	
Is nam'd your wars in France. This makes bold mouths;	
Is new committed to the Bishop of York,	
Is not my teeming date drunk up with time?	
Is not the causer of the timeless deaths	
Is not thy master with him? who, were't so,	
Is not to leave't undone, but keep't unknown.	
Is not tomorrow, boy, the ides of March?	
Is now in durance, at Malvolio's suit,	
Is only Helena. To her, my lord,	
Is prisoner to the Bishop here, at whose hands	
Is purchase of a heavy curse from Rome	
Is ripe for shaking, and the powers above	
Is stopp'd with dust: the first of April died	
Is that by sudden floods and fall of waters	
Is that he was the lord ambassador	
Is that old noble lady, Duchess of Norfolk.	
Is that the meaning of 'accost'?	
Is the third man that e'er I saw; the first	
Is there scarce ask'd for who, and good men's lives	
Is this face Hero's? Are our eyes our own?	
Is this thy vow unto my sickly heart.	
Is warm'd by th' rest and takes it thankfully.	
Is yet to name the winner. Fare you well.	
Is your displeasure with the King.	
Is't not enough to break into my garden	
Is, of a king, become a banish'd man,	
It cannot be but he was murd'red here:	
It cannot be that she hath done thee wrong.	
It comes not ill; I hate not to be banish'd;	
It could not else be I should prove so base	
It did not lie there when I went to bed.	
It did not speak before. All solemn things	
It draws toward supper in conclusion so.	
It from the bearer, 'tis a sufferance panging	
It hath been prophesied to me many years,	
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,	
It irks his heart he cannot be reveng'd.	
It is a deed in fashion. Hark thee, Clitus.        Whispers.	
It is a recreation to be by	
It is an attribute to God himself;	
It is as sure as you are Roderigo,	
It is decreed Hector the great must die.                   Exeunt	
It is enthroned in the hearts of kings,	
It is her habit only that is honest,	
It is impossible that ever Rome	
It is in us to plant thine honour where	
It is no act of common passage but	
It is no vicious blot, murther, or foulness,	
It is not honesty in me to speak	
It is not night when I do see your face,	
It is the Prince of Wales that threatens thee,	
It is the cause. Yet I'll not shed her blood,	
It is the green-eyed monster, which doth mock	
It is the soldier's: I, by bargain, should	
It is to see a nobleman want manners.	
It may be I shall otherwise bethink me.	
It may be heard at court that such as we	
It not concern'd me.	
It nothing ill becomes thee.	
It shall appear that your demands are just,	
It shall go hard if Cambio go without her.              Exit	
It should be look'd to. Come.                         Exeunt	
It should none spare that come within his power.	
It stops me here; it is too much of joy.	
It were convenient you had such a devil.	
It were lost sorrow to wail one that's lost.	
It were not good; for therein should we read	
It would amaze the proudest of you all.	
It's past the size of drearning. Nature wants stuff	
Italian, or French, let him speak to me;	
Italy have a fairer table which doth offer to swear upon a book- I	
JAQUENETTA. God give you good morrow, Master Person.	
JAQUENETTA. That's hereby.	
JAQUES. How seventh cause? Good my lord, like this fellow.	
JAQUES. I prithee, pretty youth, let me be better acquainted with	
JAQUES. Nay, then, God buy you, an you talk in blank verse.	
JAQUES. Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,	
JAQUES. Why, 'tis good to be sad and say nothing.	
JAQUES. Why, who cries out on pride	
JAQUES. [Aside] I would fain see this meeting.	
JESSICA, daughter to Shylock	
JESSICA. Farewell, good Launcelot.              Exit LAUNCELOT	
JESSICA. I am never merry when I hear sweet music.	
JESSICA. In such a night	
JOAN LA PUCELLE, Commonly called JOAN OF ARC	
JOHN BEAUFORT, EARL OF SOMERSET, afterwards Duke	
JOHN TALBOT, his son	
JULIET, beloved of Claudio	
JUPITER descends-in thunder and lightning, sitting	
Jack, meet me to-morrow in the Temple Hall	
Jew is the very devil incarnation; and, in my conscience, my	
John hath seiz'd Arthur; and it cannot be	
John lays you plots; the times conspire with you;	
John.	
John. A proper squire! And who? and who? which way looks he?	
John. Brother, I'll go and bring it thee.                 Exit.	
John. If your leisure serv'd, I would speak with you.	
John. Not I, my lord, unless I did bleed too.	
Jove's doing, and Jove make me thankful! And when she went away	
Jove, I thank thee. I will smile; I will do everything that thou	
Judge, O you gods, how dearly Caesar loved him!	
Jul. Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!	
Jul. As much to him, else is his thanks too much.	
Jul. Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in pray'r.	
Jul. Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?	
Jul. Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!	
Jul. How now? Who calls?	
Jul. It is an honour that I dream not of.	
Jul. It may be so, for it is not mine own.	
Jul. Madam, in happy time! What day is that?	
Jul. No, no. But all this did I know before.	
Jul. O serpent heart, hid with a flow'ring face!	
Jul. O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,	
Jul. O, find him! give this ring to my true knight	
Jul. Wash they his wounds with tears? Mine shall be spent,	
Jul. Wilt thou be gone? It is not yet near day.	
Just and upright, and for your royal birth	
KATHARINE, lady attending on the Princess	
KATHARINE. Fair as a text B in a copy-book.	
KATHARINE. He is Cupid's grandfather, and learns news of him.	
KATHARINE. No so, my lord; a twelvemonth and a day	
KATHARINE. Not till it leave the rider in the mire.	
KATHARINE. Sir, I most humbly pray you to deliver	
KATHARINE. The hour that fools should ask.	
KATHERINA.  [To BAPTISTA]  I pray you, sir, is it your will	
KATHERINA. A dish that I do love to feed upon.	
KATHERINA. Faith, as cold as can be.	
KATHERINA. Go, fool, and whom thou keep'st command.	
KATHERINA. Her silence flouts me, and I'll be reveng'd.	
KATHERINA. I know it is the sun that shines so bright.	
KATHERINA. I'll see thee hang'd on Sunday first.	
KATHERINA. It is my fashion, when I see a crab.	
KATHERINA. No cock of mine: you crow too like a craven.	
KATHERINA. There is, there is.	
KATHERINA. Well have you heard, but something hard of hearing:	
KATHERINE. Alice, tu as ete en Angleterre, et tu parles bien le	
KATHERINE. Dat is as it shall please de roi mon pere.	
KATHERINE. Et le coude?	
KATHERINE. Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France?	
KATHERINE. Non, je reciterai a vous promptement: d'hand, de fingre,	
KEEPER. I will, my lord. God give your Grace good rest.	
KEEPER. No marvel, lord, though it affrighted you;	
KEEPER. Yes, my lord;	
KING EDWARD. And would you not do much to do them good?	
KING EDWARD. Ay, but, I fear me, in another sense.	
KING EDWARD. Bishop, farewell. Shield thee from Warwick's frown,	
KING EDWARD. Brothers, you muse what chat we two have had.	
KING EDWARD. Huntsman, what say'st thou? Wilt thou go along?	
KING EDWARD. I'll tell you how these lands are to be got.	
KING EDWARD. Nay, stay, Sir John, a while, and we'll debate	
KING EDWARD. Stanley, I will requite thy forwardness.	
KING EDWARD. Suppose they take offence without a cause;	
KING EDWARD. To tell thee plain, I aim to lie with thee.	
KING EDWARD. What service wilt thou do me if I give them?	
KING EDWARD. Who knows not he is dead! Who knows	
KING EDWARD. Why then 'tis mine, if but by Warwick's gift.	
KING EDWARD. Why, then thou shalt not have thy husband's lands.	
KING EDWARD. Yes, Warwick, Edward dares and leads the way.	
KING HENRY THE EIGHTH	
KING HENRY THE SIXTH	
KING HENRY.  [To AMBASSADOR]  In argument and proof of	
KING HENRY. Ah, woe is me for Gloucester, wretched man!	
KING HENRY. An Englishman?	
KING HENRY. And I, with grief and sorrow, to the court.	
KING HENRY. Ay, Clifford; a bedlam and ambitious humour	
KING HENRY. Come Margaret; God, our hope, will succour us.	
KING HENRY. Do not you wear your dagger in your cap that day, lest	
KING HENRY. Go, take hence that traitor from our sight,	
KING HENRY. God-a-mercy, old heart! thou speak'st cheerfully.	
KING HENRY. Good Lord, what madness rules in brainsick	
KING HENRY. Have you perus'd the letters from the Pope,	
KING HENRY. I am content, so the maiden cities you talk of may wait	
KING HENRY. I wear it for a memorable honour;	
KING HENRY. If ever I live to see it, I will challenge it.	
KING HENRY. In any case be not too rough in terms,	
KING HENRY. It sorts well with your fierceness.	
KING HENRY. My Queen and son are gone to France for aid;	
KING HENRY. My crown is in my heart, not on my head;	
KING HENRY. Now, fie upon my false French! By mine honour, in true	
KING HENRY. Now, herald, are the dead numb'red?	
KING HENRY. O Clifford, how thy words revive my heart!	
KING HENRY. Peace to this meeting, wherefore we are met!	
KING HENRY. See, Buckingham! Somerset comes with th' Queen:	
KING HENRY. The winds grow high; so do your stomachs, lords.	
KING HENRY. Then keep thy vow, sirrah, when thou meet'st the	
KING HENRY. Then what intends these forces thou dost bring?	
KING HENRY. Though it appear a little out of fashion,	
KING HENRY. Was ever king so griev'd for subjects' woe?	
KING HENRY. We hope to make the sender blush at it.	
KING HENRY. Well have we done, thrice-valiant countrymen;	
KING HENRY. What is that wrong whereof you both	
KING HENRY. What is thy name? I know thy quality.	
KING HENRY. What men have you lost, Fluellen!	
KING HENRY. When Gloucester says the word, King Henry	
KING HENRY. Why, Buckingham, is the traitor Cade surpris'd?	
KING HENRY. Yet they do wink and yield, as love is blind and	
KING JOHN. Bear with me, cousin, for I was amaz'd	
KING JOHN. From whom hast thou this great commission, France,	
KING JOHN. Good friend, thou hast no cause to say so yet,	
KING JOHN. Here have we war for war, and blood for blood,	
KING JOHN. How goes the day with us? O, tell me, Hubert.	
KING JOHN. In us that are our own great deputy	
KING JOHN. Let it be so. I do commit his youth	
KING JOHN. Nay, but make haste; the better foot before.	
KING JOHN. Our strong possession and our right for us!	
KING JOHN. Sirrah, your brother is legitimate:	
KING JOHN. Some reasons of this double coronation	
KING JOHN. Why do you bend such solemn brows on me?	
KING PHILIP. A noble boy! Who would not do thee right?	
KING PHILIP. It likes us well; young princes, close your hands.	
KING PHILIP. Now, citizens of Angiers, ope your gates,	
KING PHILIP. Our thunder from the south	
KING PHILIP. Patience, good lady! Comfort, gentle Constance!	
KING PHILIP. Well then, to work! Our cannon shall be bent	
KING PHILIP. What can go well, when we have run so ill.	
KING PHILIP. Women and fools, break off your conference.	
KING RICHARD. A flourish, trumpets! Strike alarum, drums!	
KING RICHARD. Ay, I thank God, my father, and yourself.	
KING RICHARD. Be eloquent in my behalf to her.	
KING RICHARD. But didst thou see them dead?	
KING RICHARD. Cousin, farewell; and, uncle, bid him so.	
KING RICHARD. Fiend, thou torments me ere I come to hell.	
KING RICHARD. Mine eyes are full of tears; I cannot see.	
KING RICHARD. Must I do so? And must I ravel out	
KING RICHARD. My father's death-	
KING RICHARD. Norfolk, throw down; we bid.	
KING RICHARD. O villains, vipers, damn'd without redemption!	
KING RICHARD. O, true, good Catesby. Bid him levy straight	
KING RICHARD. Should dying men flatter with those that live?	
KING RICHARD. The sun will not be seen to-day;	
KING RICHARD. Thou chid'st me well. Proud Bolingbroke, I come	
KING RICHARD. Unless for that he comes to be your liege,	
KING RICHARD. What comfort, man? How is't with aged Gaunt?	
KING RICHARD. Wrath-kindled gentlemen, be rul'd by me;	
KING RICHARD. Wrong not her birth; she is a royal	
KING RICHARD. You speak as if that I had slain my cousins.	
KING RICHARD. Your own is yours, and I am yours, and all.	
KING RICHARD. Zounds, who is there?	
KING.  [To NORFOLK and SUFFOLK]  We are busy; go.	
KING. 'Tis true. Where is he, Denny?	
KING. 'Twere good yours did; for, sir, to tell you plain,	
KING. All is whole;	
KING. Art thou so confident? Within what space	
KING. Be of good cheer;	
KING. But wilt thou not speak all thou know'st?	
KING. By my life,	
KING. Find him, and bring him hither.        Exit an ATTENDANT	
KING. Good fortune and the favour of the King	
KING. Good man, those joyful tears show thy true heart.	
KING. Ha! Canterbury?	
KING. How now, my lord? You do desire to know	
KING. I then mov'd you,	
KING. In love, I hope; sweet fellowship in shame!	
KING. It may well be	
KING. Let fame, that all hunt after in their lives,	
KING. My Lord Cardinal,	
KING. My Lord Chamberlain,	
KING. O, you have liv'd in desolation here,	
KING. Peace!	
KING. The Florentines and Senoys are by th' ears;	
KING. The ship is under sail, and here she comes amain.	
KING. There's something more would out of thee: what say'st?	
KING. Those girls of Italy, take heed of them;	
KING. Thou hast spoken all already, unless thou canst say they are	
KING. We thank you, maiden;	
KING. What say you, lords? Why, this was quite forgot.	
KING. What says he to your daughter? Have you spoke?	
KING. What was that Henton?	
KING. Why then, good morrow to you all, my lords.	
KING. [Advancing] Come, sir, you blush; as his, your case is such.	
Kate, my wooing is fit for thy understanding: I am glad thou	
Keep house and ply his book, welcome his friends,	
Keep law and form and due proportion,	
Keep their fur dry, unbonneted he runs,	
Keeps place with thought, and almost, like the gods,	
Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,	
Kendal green came at my back and let drive at me; for it was so	
Kent. A knave; a rascal; an eater of broken meats; a base, proud,	
Kent. Draw, you rascal! You come with letters against the King, and	
Kent. Good King, that must approve the common saw,	
Kent. How do you, sir? Stand you not so amaz'd.	
Kent. Nor no man else! All's cheerless, dark, and deadly.	
Kent. O, then it mov'd her?	
Kent. Of Albany's and Cornwall's powers you heard not?	
Kent. To go out of my dialect, which you discommend so much. I	
Kent. Well, sir, I'll bring you to our master Lear	
Kent. What a brazen-fac'd varlet art thou, to deny thou knowest me!	
Kent. With the Earl, sir, here within.	
Kind gods, forgive me that, and prosper him!	
King John	
King of France.	
King'd of our fears, until our fears, resolv'd,	
King's coming down the hill; 'tis going to the King's exchequer.	
King's? Ah, thou honey-seed rogue! thou art a honey-seed; a	
King,	
King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?	
King. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'	
King. Here is a dear, a true-industrious friend,	
King. I will do so.	
King. If it be so, Laertes	
King. Let's follow, Gertrude.	
King. Let's further think of this,	
King. O Gertrude, come away!	
King. Thus ever did rebellion find rebuke.	
King. Who shall stay you?	
King. With all my heart.	
Kneel in the streets and beg for grace in vain.-	
Kneeling before this ruin of sweet life,	
Knit earth and heaven together!	
Know that this gold must coin a stratagem,	
Know what it is to meet Achilles angry.	
Know you me yet?	
Know you not, master, to some kind of men	
Know you of this taxation?	
Knows at what time to promise, when to pay.	
LADY GREY. Herein your Highness wrongs both them and me.	
LADY GREY. I take my leave with many thousand thanks.	
LADY GREY. So shall you bind me to your Highness' service.	
LADY GREY. Then, no, my lord. My suit is at an end.	
LADY MACBETH, his wife	
LADY MACBETH. A kind good night to all!	
LADY MACBETH. Come on,	
LADY MACBETH. Only look up clear;	
LADY. How? My good name? or to report of you	
LADY. I, madam.	
LADY. No more?	
LADY. The Queen, madam,	
LAFEU. 'Fore God, I think so.	
LAFEU. And what would you have me to do? 'Tis too late to pare her	
LAFEU. Farewell, pretty lady; you must hold the credit of your	
LAFEU. I will buy me a son-in-law in a fair, and toll for this.	
LAFEU. I will subscribe for thee; thou art both knave and fool.	
LAFEU. Lady, of that I have made a bold charter; but, I thank my	
LAFEU. Lustig, as the Dutchman says. I'll like a maid the better,	
LAFEU. Moderate lamentation is the right of the dead: excessive	
LAFEU. Then my dial goes not true; I took this lark for a bunting.	
LAFEU. To what is count's man: count's master is of another style.	
LAFEU. Was I, in sooth? And I was the first that lost thee.	
LAFEU. You have it from his own deliverance.	
LAFEU. Your commendations, madam, get from her tears.	
LARTIUS. At Antium.	
LARTIUS. Hence, and shut your gates upon's.	
LARTIUS. No, Caius Marcius;	
LAUNCELOT. By your leave, sir.	
LAUNCELOT. Do you not know me, father?	
LAUNCELOT. Marry, you may partly hope that your father got you not-	
LAUNCELOT. Talk you of young Master Launcelot?  [Aside]  Mark me	
LAUNCELOT. Well, well; but, for mine own part, as I have set up my	
LAVINIA. Under your patience, gentle Emperess,	
LE BEAU. I will tell you the beginning, and, if it please your	
LE BEAU. There comes an old man and his three sons-	
LE BEAU. You amaze me, ladies. I would have told you of good	
LENNOX. Goes the King hence today?	
LENNOX. Or so much as it needs	
LEPIDUS. 'Tis noble spoken.	
LEPIDUS. 'Tis pity of him.	
LEPIDUS. Farewell, my lord. What you shall know meantime	
LEPIDUS. I am not so well as I should be, but I'll ne'er out.	
LEPIDUS. Time calls upon's.	
LEPIDUS. To-morrow, Caesar,	
LEPIDUS. Trouble yourselves no further. Pray you hasten	
LEPIDUS. Upon condition Publius shall not live,	
LEWIS. And mine with hers, and thine, and Margaret's.	
LEWIS. As heartily as he is glad he hath him.	
LEWIS. Why, say, fair Queen, whence springs this deep despair?	
LIEUTENANT. And as for these, whose ransom we have set,	
LIEUTENANT. I do not know what witchcraft's in him, but	
LIEUTENANT. Yet I wish, sir-	
LINCOLN. Very well, my liege.	
LION, and MOONSHINE	
LODOVICO, nobleman of Venice, kinsman of Brabantio	
LODOVICO. What, not to pray?	
LONDON and his OFFICERS	
LONGAVILLE. Ay me, I am forsworn!	
LONGAVILLE. You swore to that, Berowne, and to the rest.	
LORD BARDOLPH. As good as heart can wish.	
LORD BARDOLPH. Who is it like should lead his forces hither?	
LORD CHIEF JUSTICE	
LORD CLIFFORD	
LORD FITZWATER                        BISHOP OF CARLISLE	
LORD HASTINGS	
LORD HASTINGS                      LORD STAFFORD	
LORD LOVEL	
LORD SAY	
LORD. Bid them come near.	
LORD. Cam'st thou from where they made the stand?	
LORENZO, in love with Jessica	
LORENZO. Dear lady, welcome home.	
LORENZO. How every fool can play upon the word! I think the best	
LOVE'S LABOUR'S LOST	
LOVELL. Faith, my lord,	
LUCE.  [Within] What needs all that, and a pair of stocks in the town?	
LUCENTIO.  [Aside]  Well begun, Tranio.	
LUCENTIO. Here is a wonder, if you talk of a wonder.	
LUCIANA. Dromio, go bid the servants spread for dinner.	
LUCIANA. Self-harming jealousy! fie, beat it hence.	
LUCIANA. Why, headstrong liberty is lash'd with woe.	
LUCILIUS	
LUCILIUS. They meant his night in Sard is to be quarter'd;	
LUCILIUS. With courtesy and with respect enough,	
LUCIO following	
LUCIO, a fantastic	
LUCIO. Ay, that he raz'd.	
LUCIO. By my troth, I'll go with thee to the lane's end. If bawdy	
LUCIO. Come, sir, I know what I know.	
LUCIO. Come, sir; come, sir; come, sir; foh, sir! Why, you	
LUCIO. I fear you not.	
LUCIO. Sir, my name is Lucio, well known to the Duke.	
LUCIUS' SERVANT. Ha! Is not that his steward muffled so?	
LUCIUS. Ah, that this sight should make so deep a wound,	
LUCIUS. Away, inhuman dog, unhallowed slave!	
LUCIUS. Ay, my lord, an't please you.	
LUCIUS. Bring down the devil, for he must not die	
LUCIUS. Call'd you, my lord?	
LUCIUS. Farewell, Andronicus, my noble father,	
LUCIUS. Fie, no: do not believe it; he cannot want for money.	
LUCIUS. He'll then instruct us of this body. Young one,	
LUCIUS. I am sorry, Cymbeline,	
LUCIUS. I have slept, my lord, already.	
LUCIUS. It is my duty, sir.	
LUCIUS. Sirs, stop his mouth, and let him speak no more.	
LUCIUS. Sweet father, cease your tears; for at your grief	
LUCIUS. Thy name?	
LUCIUS. Your hand, my lord.	
LYSANDER, in love with Hermia	
LYSANDER. Amen, amen, to that fair prayer say I;	
LYSANDER. She sees not Hermia. Hermia, sleep thou there;	
Ladies, you are not merry. Gentlemen,	
Lady P. Wouldst thou have thy head broken?	
Lady Rosaline.	
Lady the brach may stand by th' fire and stink.	
Lady, give me your hand; and, as we walk,	
Lady. But hear you, my lord.	
Lady. O my good lord, why are you thus alone?	
Laer. And so have I a noble father lost;	
Laer. I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come!	
Laer. Say you so? Come on.                               Play.	
Laer. Think it no more.	
Laer. What part is that, my lord?	
Laer. You mock me, sir.	
Lascivious Goth, and all the bitterest terms	
Lascivious, wanton, more than well beseems	
Launcelot?	
Law cannot give my child his kingdom here,	
Lay a more noble thought upon mine honour	
Lay open to my earthy-gross conceit,	
Lay sleeping on his back. About his neck	
Layest thou thy leaden mace upon my boy	
Lays down his wanton siege before her beauty,	
Leander, he would have liv'd many a fair year, though Hero had	
Lear. 'Tis strange that they should so depart from home,	
Lear. A pestilent gall to me!	
Lear. Arraign her first. 'Tis Goneril. I here take my oath before	
Lear. Better thou	
Lear. By Jupiter, I swear no!	
Lear. Do.	
Lear. First let me talk with this philosopher.	
Lear. Ha!	
Lear. Howl, howl, howl, howl! O, you are men of stone.	
Lear. I'll see their trial first. Bring in their evidence.	
Lear. Let it be so! thy truth then be thy dower!	
Lear. Nature 's above art in that respect. There's your press	
Lear. No, I say.	
Lear. No, I will be the pattern of all patience;	
Lear. No, lad; teach me.	
Lear. Pass.	
Lear. Read.	
Lear. True, my good boy. Come, bring us to this hovel.	
Lear. What art thou?	
Lear. What canst tell, boy?	
Lear. When we are born, we cry that we are come	
Lear. Where have I been? Where am I? Fair daylight,	
Lear. Wilt break my heart?	
Learn more than thou trowest,	
Leave not a rack behind. We are such stuff	
Leave thy lascivious wassails. When thou once	
Leaving our rankness and irregular course,	
Leaving their earthly parts to choke your clime,	
Left on your right hand brings you to the place.	
Lend me a light. Know we this face or no?	
Lend me thy hand, and I will give thee mine.	
Leon. All this is so; but what of this, my lord?	
Leon. All thy tediousness on me, ah?	
Leon. Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my fortunes. His	
Leon. Daughter, remember what I told you. If the Prince do solicit	
Leon. Her mother hath many times told me so.	
Leon. If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn. [To Don	
Leon. Indeed, neighbour, he comes too short of you.	
Leon. O God, counterfeit? There was never counterfeit of passion	
Leon. There's for thy pains. [Gives money.]	
Leon. What do you mean, my lord?	
Leon. What is it, my good friends?	
Leonato.	
Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight	
Lest thou a feverous life shouldst entertain,	
Lest to thy harm thou move our patience.	
Let Lucius and Titinius guard our door.             Exeunt.	
Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd	
Let every feeble rumour shake your hearts;	
Let fortune go to hell for it, not I.	
Let him be ransom'd. Never master had	
Let him but copy what in you is writ,	
Let him depart before we need his help.	
Let him receive no sust'nance, fetter him,	
Let him that thinks of me so abjectly	
Let him that will a screech-owl aye be call'd	
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him	
Let it alone; my state now will but mock me.	
Let it be lawful that law bar no wrong;	
Let it be seen to-morrow in the battle	
Let it stamp wrinkles in her brow of youth,	
Let me be counted serviceable. How look I	
Let me deserve so ill as you, and make me	
Let me embrace with old Vincentio;	
Let me have time and counsel for my cause.	
Let me persuade you to forbear awhile.	
Let me unkiss the oath 'twixt thee and me;	
Let not my sister read it in your eye;	
Let one attend him with a silver basin	
Let pity not be believ'd!' There she shook	
Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,	
Let silence be commanded.	
Let them be welcome then; we are prepar'd.	
Let them say more that like of hearsay well,	
Let them want nothing that my house affords.	
Let those who are in favour with their stars,	
Let us be worried, and our nation lose	
Let us have knowledge at the court of guard.	
Let what is here contain'd relish of love,	
Let your close fire predominate his smoke,	
Let your remembrance apply to Banquo;	
Let's be no Stoics nor no stocks, I pray,	
Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully;	
Let's reason with the worst that may befall.	
Let's teach ourselves that honorable stop,	
Let's to the altar. Heralds, wait on us.	
Let's yet be fellows; let's shake our heads and say,	
Levy great sums of money through the realm	
Lie down, and stray no farther. Now all labour	
Lie hid moe thousand deaths; yet death we fear,	
Lie there my art. Wipe thou thine eyes; have comfort.	
Lies in his hamstring, and doth think it rich	
Lies on my tongue. No, Percy, thou art dust,	
Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player	
Light wenches may prove plagues to men forsworn;	
Light, seeking light, doth light of light beguile;	
Like Perseus' horse. Where's then the saucy boat,	
Like Valor's minion carved out his passage	
Like a good parent, did beget of him	
Like an Olympian wrestling. This have I seen;	
Like beasts, which you shun beastly, and may save	
Like envious floods o'er-run her lovely face,	
Like him that travels I return again,	
Like monsters of the deep.	
Like music.	
Like pleasant travellers, to break a jest	
Like rivers of remorse and innocency.	
Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places	
Like to the summer's corn by tempest lodged.	
Like trees bedash'd with rain-in that sad time	
Like vassalage at unawares encount'ring	
Lions more confident, mountains and rocks	
Live here in heaven and may look on her;	
Live like Diana's priest betwixt cold sheets,	
Live where their prayers did; and it's come to pass	
Live you the marble-breasted tyrant still;	
Lives in his eye; that close aspect of his	
Lo, at this tomb my tributary tears	
Lo, whilst I waited on my tender lambs	
London. A hall of justice	
London. Baynard's Castle	
London. Before the Boar's Head Tavern, Eastcheap	
London. Before the Tower gates	
Look on the tragic loading of this bed;	
Look pale as primrose with blood-drinking sighs,	
Look through a casement to allure false hearts,	
Look what thy soul holds dear, imagine it	
Look where thy love comes; yonder is thy dear.	
Look, as I blow this feather from my face,	
Look, here I have you; thus I let you go,	
Look, on the sheets his hair, you see, is sticking;	
Looking all downwards to behold our cheeks	
Looks in the clouds, scorning the base degrees	
Loosing upon thee in the name of justice,	
Lord Aberga'ny, to whom by oath he menac'd	
Lord Cromwell of Wingfield, Lord Furnival of Sheffield,	
Lord John of Lancaster, go you unto him.	
Lord of York commends the plot and the general course of the	
Lord of thy presence and no land beside?	
Lord's sake.'	
Lord, Lord! how the ladies and I have put him down!	
Lordings, farewell; and say, when I am gone,	
Lords, Citizens of Angiers, Sheriff, Heralds, Officers,	
Lords, Gentlemen, Officers, Soldiers, Murtherers, Attendants,	
Lords, Heralds, Officers, Soldiers, Keeper, Messenger,	
Lords, I protest my soul is full of woe	
Lords, Ladies, and Attendants; Petitioners, Aldermen, a Herald,	
Lords, Officers, Sheriff, Vintner, Chamberlain, Drawers, two	
Lords, Senators, Officers, Soldiers, Servants, Thieves, and	
Lorenzo, who is thy new master's guest.	
Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time;	
Lose not so noble a friend on vain suppose,	
Loud shouts and salutations from their mouths	
Love thyself last; cherish those hearts that hate thee;	
Love's eye is not so true as all men's: no,	
Love's fire heats water, water cools not love.	
Love's reason's without reason. The bier at door,	
Love, and be friends, as two such men should be;	
Lucilius, and others.	
Lurk, lurk.                                         [Exit.]	
Lysander, if you live, good sir, awake.	
M. Wife. O, where is Romeo? Saw you him to-day?	
MACBETH. Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men,	
MACBETH. But wherefore could not I pronounce "Amen"?	
MACBETH. Call 'em, let me see 'em.	
MACBETH. Come, we'll to sleep. My strange and self-abuse	
MACBETH. How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags?	
MACBETH. I'll bring you to him.	
MACBETH. I'll call upon you straight. Abide within.	
MACBETH. Infected be the 'air whereon they ride,	
MACBETH. Let's briefly put on manly readiness	
MACBETH. So foul and fair a day I have not seen.	
MACBETH. Stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more.	
MACBETH. We hear our bloody cousins are bestow'd	
MACBETH. Your spirits shine through you. Within this hour at most	
MACBETH. [Within.] Who's there' what, ho!	
MACDUFF. And I must be from thence!	
MACDUFF. And all my children?	
MACDUFF. I believe drink gave thee the lie last night.	
MACDUFF. I have no words.	
MACDUFF. I know this is a joyful trouble to you,	
MACDUFF. Let us rather	
MACDUFF. Make all our trumpets speak, give them all breath,	
MACDUFF. The tyrant has not batter'd at their peace?	
MACDUFF. Then yield thee, coward,	
MACDUFF. What concern they?	
MACDUFF. What should he be?	
MACDUFF. Why, see you not?	
MAECENAS. We have cause to be glad that matters are so well	
MALCOLM. Cousins, I hope the days are near at hand	
MALCOLM. Well, more anon. Comes the King forth, I pray you?	
MALVOLIO, steward to Olivia	
MALVOLIO. And then to have the humour of state; and after a demure	
MALVOLIO. At your request? Yes, nightingales answer daws!	
MALVOLIO. Fool, I'll requite it in the highest degree; I prithe be	
MALVOLIO. Go off; I discard you. Let me enjoy my private; go off.	
MALVOLIO. Go, hang yourselves all! You are idle shallow things; I	
MALVOLIO. I say this house is as dark as ignorance, though	
MALVOLIO. My masters, are you mad? Or what are you? Have you no	
MAN. You great fellow,	
MARCIUS. I do beseech you,	
MARCIUS. O! let me clip ye	
MARCIUS. They have a leader,	
MARCUS. How many thousand times hath these poor lips,	
MARCUS. Now let hot Aetna cool in Sicily,	
MARCUS. O, thus I found her straying in the park,	
MARCUS. See, brother, see! Note how she quotes the leaves.	
MARCUS. Suum cuique is our Roman justice:	
MARCUS. This will I do, and soon return again.            Exit	
MARGARET.  [Aside]  What though I be enthrall'd? He seems	
MARIA, and KATHARINE	
MARIA. At the twelvemonth's end	
MARIA. Ay, our way to be gone.	
MARIA. How do you, Malvolio?	
MARIA. I know not, madam; 'tis a fair young man, and well attended.	
MARIA. In the wars; and that may you be bold to say in your	
MARIA. My name is Mary, sir.	
MARIA. Nay, I prithee, put on this gown and this beard; make him	
MARIA. That quaffing and drinking will undo you; I heard my lady	
MARIA. Yet you will be hang'd for being so long absent; or to be	
MARIA. You Still wrangle with her, Boyet, and she strikes at the	
MARIANA. Gentle my liege-                           [Kneeling]	
MARIANA. Noble Prince,	
MARIANA. Now I come to't, my lord:	
MARIANA. The gods forbid else!	
MARSHAL. In God's name and the King's, say who thou art,	
MARSHAL. My lord, no leave take I, for I will ride	
MARTIUS. Nor I no strength to climb without thy help.	
MARULLUS, tribune	
MASTER-GUNNER OF ORLEANS, and his SON	
MASTER. Boatswain!	
MAYOR. Now, fair befall you! He deserv'd his death;	
MELUN, a French lord	
MENAS. And thus it may be. Come, sir, will you aboard? I have a	
MENAS. From Silvius, sir.	
MENELAUS. An odd man, lady? Every man is odd.	
MENELAUS. I had good argument for kissing once.	
MENENIUS. He's right noble;	
MENENIUS. I will make my very house reel to-night. A letter for me?	
MENENIUS. Let's be calm.	
MENENIUS. Not according to the prayer of the people, for they love	
MENENIUS. Put them not to't.	
MENENIUS. Sir, I shall tell you. With a kind of smile,	
MENENIUS. So did he me; and he no more remembers his mother now	
MENENIUS. The Senate, Coriolanus, are well pleas'd	
MENENIUS. The augurer tells me we shall have news tonight.	
MENENIUS. Well, what then?	
MENENIUS. What then?	
MENENIUS. You guard like men, 'tis well; but, by your leave,	
MERCHANT. No, my good lord; he speaks the common tongue,	
MESSALA. Cicero is dead,	
MESSALA. No, my lord.	
MESSALA. Then like a Roman bear the truth I tell:	
MESSENGER. 'Tell him' quoth she 'my mourning weeds are done,	
MESSENGER. Ah, one that was a woeful looker-on	
MESSENGER. Ambassadors from Harry King of England	
MESSENGER. I met a courier, one mine ancient friend,	
MESSENGER. My honourable lords, health to you all!	
MESSENGER. Sir, if you'd save your life, fly to your house.	
MESSENGER. So like you, sir, ambassadors from Rome;	
MESSENGER. The news is true, my lord: he is descried;	
MESSENGER. These were her words, utt'red with mild disdain:	
MESSENGER. Thy biddings have been done; and every hour,	
MESSENGER. Whoever spoke it, it is true, my lord.	
MESSENGER. Will't please you hear me?	
MESSENGER. Yes, worthy sir,	
MESSENGER. Your honour's players, hearing your amendment,	
METELLUS. Stand fast together, lest some friend of Caesar's	
MIRANDA, daughter to Prospero	
MIRANDA. Alack, for mercy!	
MIRANDA. Heavens thank you for't! And now, I pray you,	
MIRANDA. I am a fool	
MIRANDA. I do not know	
MIRANDA. Never till this day	
MIRANDA. Wherefore did they not	
MONTAGUE. And, brother, here's the Earl of Wiltshire's blood,	
MONTAGUE. Montague, Montague, for Lancaster!	
MONTANO.                        It were well	
MONTANO. I am glad on't; 'tis a worthy governor.	
MONTJOY. I shall, King Harry. And so fare thee well:	
MONTJOY. Montjoy.	
MORTIMER. With silence, nephew, be thou politic;	
MOTH.    Until the goose came out of door,	
MOTH. A wonder, master! here's a costard broken in a shin.	
MOTH. By saying that a costard was broken in a shin.	
MOTH. I will praise an eel with the same praise.	
MOTH. Most maculate thoughts, master, are mask'd under such	
MOTH. Of the sea-water green, sir.	
MOTH. They do not mark me, and that brings me out.	
MOTH. [Aside] To be whipt; and yet a better love than my master.	
MOULDY. Spent!	
MOULDY. Yea, an't please you.	
MOWBRAY. However God or fortune cast my lot,	
MOWBRAY. I take it up; and by that sword I swear	
MRS. FORD. He's too big to go in there. What shall I do?	
MRS. FORD. Heaven be my witness, you do, if you suspect	
MRS. FORD. That cannot choose but amaze him.	
MRS. FORD. We'll betray him finely.	
MRS. FORD. What, hoa, Mistress Page! Come you and the old	
MRS. FORD. Why, it is my maid's aunt of Brainford.	
MRS. FORD. Why, what have you to do whither they bear it?	
MRS. FORD. You use me well, Master Ford, do you?	
MRS. OVERDONE. I am too sure of it; and it is for getting Madam	
MRS. OVERDONE. What proclamation, man?	
MRS. OVERDONE. Why, here's a change indeed in the commonwealth!	
MRS. PAGE. Adieu, good Sir Hugh.                 Exit SIR HUGH	
MRS. PAGE. Alas, what noise?	
MRS. PAGE. Ay, in good sadness is he; and talks of the basket	
MRS. PAGE. I cannot tell what the dickens his name is my	
MRS. PAGE. I pray you, come, hold up the jest no higher.	
MRS. PAGE. If he be not amaz'd, he will be mock'd; if he be	
MRS. PAGE. Is he at Master Ford's already, think'st thou?	
MRS. PAGE. Nay, I know not; it makes me almost ready to	
MRS. PAGE. Peace.	
MRS. PAGE. They are all couch'd in a pit hard by Heme's	
MRS. PAGE. Well, I will muse no further. Master Fenton,	
MRS. PAGE. Why, then, you are utterly sham'd, and he's but	
MRS. PAGE. You are come to see my daughter Anne?	
MURTHERER. Ay, my good lord. Safe in a ditch he bides,	
MURTHERER. My lord, his throat is cut; that I did for him.	
MUSTARDSEED, fairy	
MUTIUS, the sons of ANDRONICUS, with their swords bloody	
MYRMIDON. The Troyan trumpets sound the like, my lord.	
Made a divorce betwixt his queen and him;	
Made a foul blot; if tall, a lance ill-headed;	
Made glory base, and sovereignty a slave,	
Made him give battle to the lioness,	
Made impudent with use of evil deeds,	
Made me a looker-on here in Vienna,	
Made to my father, while his blood was poor,	
Make but my name thy love, and love that still,	
Make forth, the generals would have some words.	
Make haste, I say.	
Make it more like a tavern or a brothel	
Make me, that nothing have, with nothing griev'd,	
Make no collection of it. Let him show	
Make of your prayers one sweet sacrifice,	
Make such unconstant children of ourselves,	
Make thee another self for love of me,	
Make us strange stuff.	
Make you to ravel all this matter out,	
Makes me less gracious or thee more fortunate:	
Makes the survivor heir of all.	
Makes you think so.	
Making that idiot, laughter, keep men's eyes	
Manage this war.	
Mangle the work of nature, and deface	
Many a groaning throe. Thus hulling in	
Many likelihoods inform'd me of this before, which hung so	
Many receipts he gave me; chiefly one,	
Mar. 'Tis gone and will not answer.	
Mar. O, wonderful!	
March to the bridge, it now draws toward night;	
March. Enter MONTGOMERY with drum and soldiers	
Marg. 'Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.	
Marg. Get you some of this distill'd carduus benedictus and lay it	
Marg. God match me with a good dancer!	
Marg. O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels.	
Margaret,	
Mark Antony is in your tents, my lord;	
Mark Antony's was by Caesar. He chid the sisters	
Mark but my fall and that that ruin'd me.	
Mark what I say. Attend me where I wheel;	
Marry, before your ladyship I grant,	
Master Copperspur, and Master Starvelackey, the rapier and dagger	
Master Froth, look upon his honour; 'tis for a good purpose. Doth	
Master Page, fidelicet Master Page; and there is myself,	
Matchless Navarre; the plea of no less weight	
Maugre thy strength, youth, place, and eminence,	
May all the building in my fancy pluck	
May be a devil; and the devil hath power	
May be it is the period of your duty.	
May be my friends. He's dead. I am only sorry	
May blame, but not control.	
May cement their divisions, and bind up	
May deem that you are worthily depos'd.	
May hang no longer on me. Throw my heart	
May here find truth too. Those that come to see	
May it please your Highness to resolve me now;	
May offer, but not hold.	
May soon return to this our suffering country	
May they not be my oracles as well	
May unfold me to him; there stand I in much peril.	
Me and thy crying self.	
Meaning me a beast.	
Meantime, have patience.	
Medea gathered the enchanted herbs	
Meet me i' the morning. Thither he	
Melted as the snow, seems to me now	
Men do their broken weapons rather use	
Men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes,	
Mer. But I'll be hang'd, sir, if he wear your livery.	
Mer. By my heel, I care not.	
Mer. Could you not take some occasion without giving	
Mer. Nay, I'll conjure too.	
Mer. Thou art like one of these fellows that, when he enters the	
Mer. Yea, is the worst well? Very well took, i' faith! wisely,	
Mercutio, kinsman to the Prince and friend to Romeo.	
Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.	
Mess. He is very near by this. He was not three leagues off when I	
Mess. I have already delivered him letters, and there appears much	
Mess. Save Yourself, my lord:	
Messengers, English and French Attendants. Fiends appearing	
Methought I was enamour'd of an ass.	
Methought it did relieve my passion much,	
Might I not then say 'Now I love you best,'	
Might be to you in Egypt. Yet, if you there	
Might bear him company in the quest of him;	
Might go one way, and safely; and the end	
Might happily have prov'd far worse than his.	
Might in their working do you that offence	
Might liquid tears, or heart-offending groans,	
Might well have warm'd old Saturn; that I thought her	
Mine eye, my heart thy picture's sight would bar,	
Mine eyes cannot hold out water, methinks. To forget their	
Mine eyes to sweat compassion. But, good sir,	
Mine honour for his truth; who being so heighten'd,	
Mine innocent child?	
Mine own, and not mine own.	
Mischance unto my state by Suffolk's means.	
Misfortune to my ventures, out of doubt,	
Mist-like infold me from the search of eyes.          Knock.	
Mistress Ford. Now shall I sin in my wish; I would thy	
Mistress, do I?	
Mocking the air with colours idly spread,	
Modest. If again it was not well cut, he disabled my judgment.	
Montagues.	
More blessed hap did ne'er befall our state.	
More bound to's mother, yet here he lets me prate	
More laud than gilt o'er-dusted.	
More miserable by the life of thee	
More pious debts to heaven than in all	
More sharp than filed steel, did spur me forth;	
More slavish did I ne'er than answering	
More stern and bloody than the Centaurs' feast.	
More tedious than the dial eight score times?	
More than I have said, loving countrymen,	
More than light airs and recollected terms	
More than my dancing soul doth celebrate	
More than our brother is our chastity.	
More than pertains to feats of broil and battle;	
More than the infant that is born to-night.	
More truly now may this be verified;	
More tuneable than lark to shepherd's ear,	
More witnesseth than fancy's images,	
More would I, but my lungs are wasted so	
Mortal, to cut it off: to cure it, easy.	
Most	
Most heartily to pray for her.	
Most ignorant of what he's most assur'd,	
Most mighty Princess, that I have adventur'd	
Most noble! In the presence of thy corse?	
Most of our city did. Only myself stood out;	
Most smiling, smooth, detested parasites,	
Most welcome, sir!                             [They salute]	
Most worthy brother England; fairly met!	
Most worthy comfort, now my greatest grief,	
Mother. What, are you busy, ho? Need you my help?	
Motion and breath left out.	
Mov'd with compassion of my country's wreck,	
Much feater than before. My brother's servants	
Much good dich thy good heart, Apemantus!	
Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.	
Murder in healing wounds. Then, noble partners,	
Music and a song within,	
Music. The Witches dance and	
Must I behold my pretty Arthur more.	
Must be half-workers? We are all bastards,	
Must bear my beating to his grave- shall join	
Must first induce you to believe- whose strength	
Must give my tendance to.	
Must glove this hand; and hence, thou sickly coif!	
Must have a word anon. Lay hold on him.	
Must make perforce an universal prey,	
Must not continue friends.	
Must these have voices, that can yield them now	
Must you with hot irons burn out both mine eyes?	
My absence doth neglect no great design	
My ancestors did from the streets of Rome	
My arm shall give thee help to bear thee hence;	
My babes were destin'd to a fairer death,	
My better service, when my turpitude	
My birthplace hate I, and my love's upon	
My blood, my want of strength, my sick heart shows,	
My body round engirt with misery-	
My breast I'll burst with straining of my courage.	
My charity is outrage, life my shame;	
My child is yet a stranger in the world,	
My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?	
My conscience says 'No; take heed, honest Launcelot, take heed,	
My cousin Westmoreland? No, my fair cousin;	
My custom always of the afternoon,	
My date of life out for his sweet life's loss.	
My dukedom to a beggarly denier,	
My ear should catch your voice, my eye your eye,	
My fair niece Rosaline and Livia;	
My father and Lavinia shall forthwith	
My father gave him welcome to the shore;	
My father gave my mother.	
My father is here look'd for every day	
My father's land, as was my father's will.	
My father, Earl of Cambridge, lost his head.	
My father, King of Spain, was reckon'd one	
My figur'd goblets for a dish of wood,	
My foes I do repute you every one;	
My friend Stephano, signify, I pray you,	
My gentle Puck, come hither. Thou rememb'rest	
My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to	
My gracious lord-	
My grief was at the height before thou cam'st,	
My griefs cry louder than advertisement.	
My hate to Marcius. Where I find him, were it	
My heart and hands thou hast at once subdu'd.	
My heavy burden ne'er delivered.	
My inch of taper will be burnt and done,	
My letters say a hundred and seven galleys.	
My liefest liege to be mine enemy;	
My lord, I'll tell my lady you will come.	
My lord, these griefs shall be with speed redress'd;	
My lords, a solemn hunting is in hand;	
My love as deep; the more I give to thee,	
My love should kindle to inflam'd respect.	
My maid Nerissa and myself meantime	
My master's a very Jew. Give him a present! Give him a halter. I	
My master, my dear lord he is; and I	
My mercy dried their water-flowing tears;	
My mind hath been as big as one of yours,	
My mouth no more were broken than these boys',	
My parks, my walks, my manors, that I had,	
My proud heart sues, and prompts my tongue to speak.	
My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time	
My red dominical, my golden letter:	
My residence in Rome at one Philario's,	
My scars can witness, dumb although they are,	
My sceptre for a palmer's walking staff,	
My services, which I have done the signiory,	
My soul doth tell my body that he may,	
My speech should fall into such vile success	
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile	
My sword, my chariot, and my prisoners,	
My tear-stain'd eyes to see her miseries.	
My tears for glasses, and still make me weep.	
My tears gainsay; for every word I speak,	
My tears will choke me, if I ope my mouth.	
My thoughts aim at a further matter; I	
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France	
My thoughts that labour to persuade my soul	
My throat to thee and to thy ancient malice;	
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-	
My tongue-tied muse in manners holds her still,	
My uncle practises more harm to me;	
My uncle?	
My unsoil'd name, th' austereness of my life,	
My very heart at root.	
My way is now to hie home to his house,	
My wife is in a wayward mood to-day,	
My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours.	
My worthy arch and patron, comes to-night.	
Myself I'll dedicate. Let me make men know	
Myself am mov'd to woo thee for my wife.	
Myself and my good cousin Buckingham	
Myself have often heard him say and swear	
Myself of many I am charged withal.	
Myself, well-mounted, hardly have escap'd.	
NATHANIEL. Sir, you have done this in the fear of God, very	
NATHANIEL. When in the world I liv'd, I was the world's commander;	
NERISSA. What talk you of the posy or the value?	
NERISSA. What, and stake down?	
NERISSA. You would be, sweet madam, if your miseries were in the	
NESTOR. All the better; their fraction is more our wish than their	
NESTOR. I see them not with my old eyes. What are they?	
NESTOR. I would my arms could match thee in contention	
NESTOR. No Achilles with him.	
NESTOR. Our noble general, do not do so.	
NESTOR. Would you, my lord, aught with the general?	
NESTOR. [Aside] How he describes himself!	
NORFOLK. 'Tis so;	
NORFOLK. I thank your Grace,	
NORFOLK. Like it your Grace,	
NORFOLK. Then, that in all you writ to Rome, or else	
NORTHUMBERLAND. Be thou a prey unto the house of York	
NORTHUMBERLAND. I pray thee, loving wife, and gentle daughter,	
NORTHUMBERLAND. My lord, the mind of Bolingbroke is chang'd;	
NORTHUMBERLAND. No more; but that you read	
NORTHUMBERLAND. Plantagenet, for all the claim thou lay'st,	
NORTHUMBERLAND. Reproach and dissolution hangeth over him.	
NORTHUMBERLAND. Thou art deceiv'd. 'Tis not thy southern power	
NORTHUMBERLAND. Well, lords, the Duke of Lancaster is dead.	
NORTHUMBERLAND. Why, he is dead.	
NORTHUMBERLAND. Yet, for all this, say not that Percy's dead.	
NORTHUMBERLAND. Your Grace mistakes; only to be brief,	
NURSE. A devil.	
NURSE. Cornelia the midwife and myself;	
NYM. Be avis'd, sir, and pass good humours; I will say	
NYM. I cannot tell; things must be as they may. Men may sleep, and	
NYM. Pish!	
NYM. The good humour is to steal at a minute's rest.	
Nature.	
Navarre	
Nay, be thou sure I'll well requite thy kindness,	
Nay, do so, for indeed I have lost command;	
Nay, let 'em be unmanly, yet are follow'd.	
Nay, send in time.	
Nay, stay thou out for earnest.          [Keeping some gold]	
Nay, tell me if you speak in jest or no.	
Nay, when? Strike now, or else the iron cools.	
Nay;	
Ne'er seen but wond'red at; and so my state,	
Necessitied to help, that by this token	
Neglect me, lose me; only give me leave,	
Neither disturbed with the effect of wine,	
Neither supreme, how soon confusion	
Nerissa and the rest, stand all aloof;	
Never bestrid a horse, save one that had	
Never harm	
Never sees horrid night, the child of hell;	
Never so needful on the earth of France,	
Never sound more! When drums and trumpets shall	
Never to lie and take his natural rest	
Never to part with it, and here he stands;	
Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.	
New come from Padua.	
News have I that my Nell is dead i' th' spital	
Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day	
Nightly she sings on yond pomegranate tree.	
Nips youth i' th' head, and follies doth enew	
No better than a sty? O, see, my women,        [Antony dies]	
No grapes, my royal fox? Yes, but you will	
No harm by it, though the gods hear, I hope	
No heretics burn'd, but wenches' suitors;	
No hope to have redress? My body shall	
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day	
No judge indifferent, nor no more assurance	
No less to have done so; let me infold thee	
No longer Celia, but Aliena.	
No longer for my flatterer; he is drown'd	
No longer than we well could wash our hands,	
No man must know.'	
No matter then although my foot did stand	
No more do yours. Your virtues, gentle master,	
No more will I their babes. Tears virginal	
No more, good York; sweet Somerset, be still.	
No note at all of our being absent hence;	
No sleep close up that deadly eye of thine,	
No sovereignty-	
No tearing, lady! I perceive you know it.	
No woman may approach his silent court.	
No word like 'pardon' for kings' mouths so meet.	
No, Leonato,	
No, No! This shall forbid it. Lie thou there.	
No, indeed, ist not; and I would to heaven	
No, madam, these are no venereal signs.	
No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful.	
No, your poor disposer's sick.	
No.	
No; let him die, in that he is a fox,	
No; to the spital go,	
Noise and tumult within. Enter PORTER and his MAN	
None else to me, nor I to none alive,	
Nor I, nor any man that but man is,	
Nor age nor honour shall shape privilege.	
Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world,	
Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part	
Nor can I fortune to brief minutes tell;	
Nor construe any further my neglect	
Nor dare I chide the world-without-end hour,	
Nor dare I question with my jealous thought,	
Nor dignifies an impair thought with breath;	
Nor doth he of himself know them for aught	
Nor ever will be rul'd.	
Nor gates of steel so strong but time decays?	
Nor hear I from my mistress, who did promise	
Nor heel the high lavolt, nor sweeten talk,	
Nor here provincial. My business in this state	
Nor iron on his heel! I am asham'd	
Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends,	
Nor need you, on mine honour, have to do	
Nor never look upon each other's face;	
Nor never seek prevention of thy foes.	
Nor satisfying us.	
Nor stir at nothing till the axe of death	
Nor tempt the danger of my true defence;	
Nor thine on me!                                       Dies.	
Nor thou with public kindness honour me,	
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,	
Nor will he know his purse, or yield me this,	
Nor woo in rhyme, like a blind harper's song.	
Nor yoke with him for tribune.	
North. Yea, my good lord.	
Northumberland, and that sprightly Scot of Scots, Douglas, that	
Not Erebus itself were dim enough	
Not able to endure the sight of day,	
Not as deserv'd.	
Not being Fortune, he's but Fortune's knave,	
Not body's death, but body's banishment.	
Not fate, obedience, nor the hand of Mars	
Not half so old as that. I'll write against them,	
Not many moons gone by.	
Not me begotten of a shepherd swain,	
Not mine to speak on't.	
Not of that dye which their investments show,	
Not one word more of the consumed time.	
Not only good and wise but most religious;	
Not palating the taste of her dishonour,	
Not paying me a welcome. Trust me, sweet,	
Not poppy, nor mandragora,	
Not sensible of fire remain'd unscorch'd.	
Not sickness should detain me.                    [Flourish]	
Not to consider in what case thou stand'st	
Not without fair reward.                        Exit SERVANT	
Not working with the eye without the ear,	
Not yet enjoy'd. So tedious is this day	
Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,	
Nothing but lechery! All incontinent varlets!                Exit	
Nothing but odds with England. To that end,	
Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy	
Now I perceive they have conjoin'd all three	
Now all the service I require of them	
Now beat them hence; why do you let them stay?	
Now begin;	
Now expectation, tickling skittish spirits	
Now fear I this will give it start again;	
Now for the rebels which stand out in Ireland,	
Now good or bad, 'tis but the chance of war.	
Now hear me speak with a prophetic spirit;	
Now if the help of Norfolk and myself,	
Now in his life, against your holy oath?	
Now is it Rome indeed, and room enough,	
Now is the sun upon the highmost hill	
Now know you, Casca, I have moved already	
Now lays upon you.	
Now leaves him.	
Now let the general trumpet blow his blast,	
Now one the better, then another best;	
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,	
Now she is there, how will she specify	
Now stand you on the top of happy hours,	
Now these her princes are come home again,	
Now useless, boil'd within thy skull! There stand,	
Now what my love is, proof hath made you know;	
Now where is he that will not stay so long	
Now will I write letters to Angelo-	
Now, Catesby, what says his Grace?	
Now, Catesby, what says your lord to my request?	
Now, Charmian!	
Now, France, thy glory droopeth to the dust.            Exit	
Now, by the jealous queen of heaven, that kiss	
Now, fellows, you are welcome.	
Now, go thy way. Faintness constraineth me	
Now, if you can blush and cry guilty, Cardinal,	
Now, lords, take leave until we meet again,	
Now, where's your master?	
Nurse. Ay, ay, the cords.	
Nurse. If you be he, sir, I desire some confidence with you.	
Nurse. Madam, your mother craves a word with you.	
Nurse. Marry, I will; and this is wisely done.           Exit.	
Nurse. O God's Lady dear!	
Nurse. O Lord, I could have stay'd here all the night	
Nurse. Peter, take my fan, and go before, and apace.	
O Ceremony, show me but thy worth!	
O Richard! York is too far gone with grief,	
O brave Oliver,	
O brave young Prince! thy famous grandfather	
O brother, help me with thy fainting hand-	
O cousin, cousin!	
O day! O day! O day! O hateful day!	
O faithless coward! O dishonest wretch!	
O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt	
O heavens, that they were living both in Naples,	
O how much more doth beauty beauteous seem,	
O indistinguish'd space of woman's will!	
O lady, weep no more, lest I give cause	
O love, be moderate, allay thy ecstasy,	
O me! come near me now I am much ill.	
O mechante fortune! Do not run away.	
O misery on't!- the wise gods seel our eyes,	
O mistress mine, where are you roaming?	
O no, it is an ever-fixed mark	
O no, thy love though much, is not so great,	
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,	
O that I were a glove upon that hand,	
O that your face were not so full of O's!	
O then, tread down my need, and faith mounts up:	
O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,	
O'erpays all I can do. By this your king	
O, be to me, though thy hard heart say no,	
O, could our mourning case thy misery!                Exeunt	
O, dismiss this audience, and I shall tell you more.	
O, do not learn her wrath- she taught it thee;	
O, do ye read, my lord, what she hath writ?	
O, go not yet! Even thus two friends condemn'd	
O, handle not the theme, to talk of hands,	
O, he hath drawn my picture in his letter!	
O, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,	
O, let me make the period to my curse!	
O, let me see thee walk. Thou dost not halt.	
O, let me stay, befall what may befall!	
O, man's life's but a span;	
O, may diseases only work upon't!	
O, me, with what strict patience have I sat,	
O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;	
O, negligent and heedless discipline!	
O, never will I trust to speeches penn'd,	
O, no! Alas, I rather hate myself	
O, no! the apprehension of the good	
O, what may man within him hide,	
O, what more favour can I do to thee	
O, where's young Talbot? Where is valiant John?	
O, would the King, Berowne and Longaville,	
O, you, sir, you! Come you hither, sir. Who am I, sir?	
OBERON.     Then, my Queen, in silence sad,	
OBERON.    Now, until the break of day,	
OBERON. Having once this juice,	
OBERON. How canst thou thus, for shame, Titania,	
OCTAVIA. All which time	
OCTAVIA. I'll tell you in your ear.	
OCTAVIUS. So you thought him,	
OCTAVIUS. Stir not until the signal not until the signal.	
OCTAVIUS. Upon the right hand I, keep thou the left.	
OCTAVIUS. You may do your will,	
OFFICER. Good sir, be patient.	
OLD LADY. Then you are weakly made. Pluck off a little;	
OLIVER. Get you with him, you old dog.	
OLIVIA'S house	
OLIVIA. 'What is your parentage?'	
OLIVIA. Alas, Malvolio, this is not my writing,	
OLIVIA. Alas, it is the baseness of thy fear	
OLIVIA. Fetch him off, I pray you; he speaks nothing but madman.	
OLIVIA. Go call him hither.                         Exit MARIA	
OLIVIA. Ha?	
OLIVIA. Heaven restore thee!	
OLIVIA. In his bosom! In what chapter of his bosom?	
OLIVIA. Why, then, methinks 'tis time to smile again.	
ORLANDO. A man that had a wife with such a wit, he might say 'Wit,	
ORLANDO. Ay, and greater wonders than that.	
ORLANDO. Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know you are	
ORLANDO. I am he that is so love-shak'd; I pray you tell me your	
ORLANDO. I am more proud to be Sir Rowland's son,	
ORLANDO. I thank you most for him.	
ORLANDO. I will chide no breather in the world but myself, against	
ORLANDO. My fair Rosalind, I come within an hour of my promise.	
ORLANDO. That would I, were I of all kingdoms king.	
ORLANDO. To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.	
ORLANDO. What, of my suit?	
ORLANDO. Wounded it is, but with the eyes of a lady.	
ORLEANS. Foolish curs, that run winking into the mouth of a Russian	
ORLEANS. He needs not; it is no hidden virtue in him.	
ORLEANS. I know him to be valiant.	
ORLEANS. That they lack; for if their heads had any intellectual	
ORLEANS. Will it never be morning?	
ORLEANS. Within the town	
OTHELLO.                          If it be that-	
OTHELLO.                          Let me see your eyes;	
OTHELLO.                        It is even so.	
OTHELLO.                      Why, anything;	
OTHELLO.             'Tis well I am found by you.	
OTHELLO. 'Tis pitiful, but yet Iago knows	
OTHELLO. All's well now, sweeting; come away to bed.	
OTHELLO. Ha!	
OTHELLO. Had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge	
OTHELLO. I have a pain upon my forehead here.	
OTHELLO. I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me;	
OTHELLO. I will chop her into messes. Cuckold me!	
OTHELLO. Nay, if you strive-	
OTHELLO. Not?	
OTHELLO. O Iago!	
OTHELLO. She's like a liar gone to burning hell;	
OTHELLO. That's strange.	
OTHELLO. The servants of the Duke? And my lieutenant?	
OTHELLO. The tyrant custom, most grave senators,	
OTHELLO. The voice of Cassio; Iago keeps his word.	
OTHELLO. What noise is this? Not dead? not yet quite dead?	
OTHELLO. What would you with her, sir?	
OTHELLO. What? what?	
OTHELLO. Why, what art thou?	
OTHELLO. With mine officer!	
OTHELLO. Yes, you have seen Cassio and she together.	
OTHELLO. You have seen nothing, then?	
OTHELLO. [Advancing.] How shall I murther him, Iago?	
OXFORD. Call him my king by whose injurious doom	
OXFORD. Every man's conscience is a thousand men,	
Obey you, love you, and most honour you.	
Observ'd his courtship to the common people;	
Of 'came, and saw, and overcame.' With shame-	
Of Caesar seek your honour, with your safety. O!	
Of Charles his father.	
Of Herne the Hunter let us not forget.	
Of Jaques Falconbridge, solemnized	
Of Sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, light on you!	
Of a despised life, clos'd in my breast,	
Of a detesting lord.	
Of all be hated, but the most of me!	
Of all perfections that a man may owe,	
Of all the favourites that the absent King	
Of all thy sex; most monster-like, be shown	
Of any kindred action like to this?	
Of any prince so wild a libertine.	
Of arts inhibited and out of warrant.	
Of audience nor desire shall fail, so she	
Of base insinuating flattery,	
Of bloody turbulence, and this whole night	
Of butcher'd princes fight in thy behalf.	
Of colour like the red rose on triumphant brier,	
Of dear import; and the neglecting it	
Of fair King Richard, scrap'd from Pomfret stones;	
Of full three thousand ducats. What of that?	
Of greatest port, have all persuaded with him;	
Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,	
Of her I am to speak.	
Of her that threw it. Noble she was, and thought	
Of her two branches- those sweet ornaments	
Of his fair mistress. In the afternoon	
Of his great name and estimation,	
Of his oath-breaking; which he mended thus,	
Of his own chamber and used their very daggers,	
Of hostile arms! Myself myself confound!	
Of hostile paces. Those opposed eyes	
Of kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;	
Of kings, of beggars, old men, young men, maids,	
Of law and course of direct session	
Of limping Winter treads, even such delight	
Of many a bold one, whose kinsmen have made suit	
Of many faces, eyes, and hearts,	
Of marching to Philippi presently?	
Of mercy, if thou didst this deed of death,	
Of my Lord Hastings' late imprisonment.	
Of my good purposes, and put your children	
Of my lord's health, of his content; yet not	
Of my word, I have written to effect;	
Of old I know them; rather with their teeth	
Of others' voices, that my adder's sense,	
Of our solemnities.	
Of palisadoes, frontiers, parapets,	
Of plagues, of dearths, or seasons' quality,	
Of quick cross lightning? to watch- poor perdu!-	
Of rare and prov'd effects, such as his reading	
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.	
Of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts,	
Of some such thing?	
Of stronger earth than others. My mother bows,	
Of such a burden, male twins, both alike.	
Of sulphurous roaring the most mighty Neptune	
Of sweet young Rutland, by rough Clifford slain;	
Of that fell poison which assaileth him.	
Of that same noble prelate well-belov'd,	
Of the all-binding law; and that there were	
Of the full-fortun'd Caesar ever shall	
Of the good Queen, but the sharp thorny points	
Of the great Count himself, she is too mean	
Of the great Duke of Buckingham.	
Of the most bloody nurser of his harms!	
Of the rang'd empire fall! Here is my space.	
Of the same house Publius and Quintus were,	
Of the unguarded hearts, heavens, how they wound!	
Of the wide world, dreaming on things to come,	
Of thee, my dear one, thee, my daughter, who	
Of things that merchants sold. Therefore be cheer'd;	
Of this our time, all you prefiguring,	
Of thrice three times the value of this bond.	
Of thy sharp envy. Can no prayers pierce thee?	
Of thy unnatural uncle, English John.	
Of trotting paritors. O my little heart!	
Of two most rare affections! Heavens rain grace	
Of war-mark'd footmen; leave unexecuted	
Of what we blame him for!	
Of wheat, rye, barley, vetches, oats, and pease;	
Of whom he had this ring.	
Of whom thy father, Prince of Wales, was first.	
Of wisdom, gravity, profound conceit;	
Of woeful ages long ago betid;	
Of your profession? Speak, what trade art thou?	
Offer'st me brass?	
Offering their own lives in their young's defence	
Offers, as I do, in a sign of peace,	
Oft have you-often have you thanks therefore-	
Often have you heard that told;	
Old Man. O my good lord,	
Older in practice, abler than yourself	
On Helen's cheek all art of beauty set,	
On Holy-rood Day the gallant Hotspur there,	
On May-day morning; which will never be.	
On a dissension of a doit, break out	
On a ship at sea; a tempestuous noise of thunder and lightning heard	
On business to my brother Cassius.	
On either hand thee there are squadrons pitch'd	
On him I lay that you would lay on me-	
On like conditions, will have counter-seal'd.	
On some apparent danger seen in him	
On that celestial harmony I go to.	
On the enchafed flood.	
On the forefinger of an alderman,	
On the nice hazard of one doubtful hour?	
On their abatement; that's not my desire.	
On things would hurt me more. But I'll go in.	
On those that are, revenge: crimes, like lands,	
On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap,	
On your imaginary forces work.	
Once Arviragus, in as like a figure	
Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.	
Once stir my temper; but this virtuous maid	
Once this-your long experience of her wisdom,	
One Hero died defil'd; but I do live,	
One Ragozine, a most notorious pirate,	
One of thy eyes and thy cheek's side struck off!	
One on another's neck do witness bear	
One spirit to command; they all do hate him	
One that excels the quirks of blazoning pens,	
One that, before the Judgment, carries poor souls to hell.	
One time or other break some gallows' back.	
One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,	
One, Kate, that you must kiss and be acquainted with.	
Only my blood speaks to you in my veins;	
Only we want a little personal strength;	
Open the door, or I will break it open.	
Open the gates and let me in.	
Open-ey'd conspiracy	
Oph. Madam, I wish it may.	
Oph. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.	
Oph. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.	
Ophelia,'-	
Oppos'd to hinder me, should stop my way,	
Opposites against King Henry IV	
Or Bassianus so degenerate,	
Or I attach you by this officer.	
Or I could make a prologue to my brains,	
Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours,	
Or I will throw thee from my care for ever	
Or I would see his heart out ere the priest	
Or I'll so maul you and your toasting-iron	
Or Jove for's power to thunder. His heart's his mouth;	
Or a harlot for her weeping,	
Or a keeper with my freedom,	
Or any he, the proudest of thy sort.	
Or any other ground inhabitable	
Or any token of thine honour else,	
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,	
Or as a little snow, tumbled about,	
Or as the south to the septentrion.	
Or brought a fagot to bright-burning Troy?	
Or by some other.	
Or daring-hardy as to touch the lists,	
Or durst not for his craven heart say thus.	
Or else I swoon with this dead-killing news!	
Or else for ever be confixed here,	
Or else it would have gall'd his surly nature,	
Or else thou art suborn'd against his honour	
Or else thou diest to-morrow.	
Or ere I'll weep. O fool, I shall go mad!	
Or fill up chronicles in time to come,	
Or go to bed now, being two hours to day.	
Or hedge aside from the direct forthright,	
Or here, or elsewhere to the furthest verge	
Or how haps it I seek not to advance	
Or if not so, then here I hit it right-	
Or if they have, where is my judgment fled,	
Or in the heart or in the head,	
Or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight?	
Or less!- at first? Perchance he spoke not, but,	
Or like obedient subjects follow him	
Or manage it to part these men with me.	
Or me to whom thou gav'st it, else mistaking,	
Or more than any living man could bear.	
Or nourish'd him as I did with my blood,	
Or of devotion, to this holy shrine?	
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;	
Or rather swaying more upon our part	
Or roaring terrors; for defect of judgment	
Or sell my title for a glorious grave.	
Or sent to Naples. Let me not,	
Or shall we sparingly show you far of	
Or should have spoke ere this. Look down, you gods,	
Or teach thy hasty spleen to do me shame,	
Or that for which I live; who once again	
Or that we quit this place. Let's draw our weapons.	
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death	
Or turn'd an eye of doubt upon my face,	
Or walk in thievish ways, or bid me lurk	
Or we are Romans and will give you that,	
Or whether doth my mind being crowned with you	
Or who hath brought the fatal engine in	
Or with a base and boist'rous sword enforce	
Or yield up Aquitaine.	
Or you stol'n his? or both? Pray, what's the news?	
Or, at the least, make them his enemies.	
Or, earth, gape open wide and eat him quick,	
Or, if you show your face, you must not speak.	
Or, whilst I can vent clamour from my throat,	
Or, wing'd with fervour of her love, she's flown	
Osr. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.	
Osr. Sir?	
Osric, courtier.	
Osw. I am none of these, my lord; I beseech your pardon.	
Osw. I, madam?	
Osw. What dost thou know me for?	
Othello, leave some officer behind,	
Other affairs must now be managed.	
Other plains of Gascony	
Other slow arts entirely keep the brain;	
Our appertainings, visiting of him.	
Our arms in strength of malice, and our hearts	
Our blood to us, this to our blood is born.	
Our business valued, some twelve days hence	
Our chariots and our horsemen be in readiness.	
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.	
Our comfort in the country. We must find	
Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,	
Our daughter Mary. I' th' progress of this business,	
Our duty is so rich, so infinite,	
Our duty this way lies. For God's sake, come.	
Our eldest, Malcolm, whom we name hereafter	
Our faith mere folly. Yet he that can endure	
Our father's tears despis'd, and basely cozen'd	
Our foster nurse of nature is repose,	
Our gayness and our gilt are all besmirch'd	
Our general himself makes a mistress of him, sanctifies himself	
Our greatest friends attend us.	
Our guider, come; to th' Roman camp conduct us.       Exeunt	
Our holy lives must win a new world's crown,	
Our late King, Richard, being infected, died.	
Our late edict shall strongly stand in force:	
Our men more perfect in the use of arms,	
Our purpose may hold there.- But stay, what noise,	
Our royal, good, and gallant ship; our master	
Our sighs and they shall lodge the summer corn	
Our strength is all gone into heaviness;	
Our terrible approach.	
Our thighs with wax, our mouths with honey pack'd,	
Our trivial difference loud, we do commit	
Our very veins of life. Hear me more plainly.	
Our waggon is prepar'd, and time revives us.	
Our windows are broke down in every street,	
Our youngest born, I could as well be brought	
Our youths and wildness shall no whit appear,	
Out of a new-sad soul, that you vouchsafe	
Out of himself?	
Out of myself, press me to death with wit!	
Out of this fearful country!	
Out of those many regist'red in promise,	
Outcast of Naples, England's bloody scourge!	
Outliving beauty's outward, with a mind	
Over my thigh, and sigh'd and kiss'd; and then	
PAGE. And youthful still, in your doublet and hose, this raw	
PAGE. Marry, were they.	
PAGE. My lord?	
PAGE. Nay, daughter, carry the wine in; we'll drink within.	
PAGE. Now, Mistress, how chance you went not with Master	
PAGE. Now, good Master Doctor!	
PAGE. Seven groats and two pence.	
PAINTER. A picture, sir. When comes your book forth?	
PAINTER. We are hither come to offer you our service.	
PANDARUS. Do you hear, my lord? Do you hear?	
PANDARUS. Ha, ha! Alas, poor wretch! a poor capocchia! hast not	
PANDARUS. Here! What should he do here?	
PANDARUS. Here's a letter come from yond poor girl.	
PANDARUS. How now! Where's thy master? At my cousin Cressida's?	
PANDARUS. Leave! An you take leave till to-morrow morning-	
PANDARUS. No, no, no such matter; you are wide. Come, your disposer	
PANDARUS. That's Aeneas. Is not that a brave man? He's one of the	
PANDARUS. They laugh'd not so much at the hair as at his pretty	
PANDARUS. You speak your fair pleasure, sweet queen. Fair prince,	
PARIS. Hector, Deiphobus, Helenus, Antenor, and all the gallantry	
PAROLLES. 'Five or six thousand horse' I said-I will say true- 'or	
PAROLLES. A good knave, i' faith, and well fed.	
PAROLLES. A most harsh one, and not to be understood without bloody	
PAROLLES. An idle lord, I swear.	
PAROLLES. And debile minister, great power, great transcendence;	
PAROLLES. Faith, sir, has led the drum before the English	
PAROLLES. I am a poor man, and at your Majesty's command.	
PAROLLES. I would have said it; you say well. Here comes the King.	
PAROLLES. It is indeed. If you will have it in showing, you shall	
PAROLLES. Let me see. Marry, ill to like him that ne'er it likes.	
PAROLLES. Mars dote on you for his novices!       Exeunt LORDS	
PAROLLES. My lord, I am a man whom Fortune hath cruelly scratch'd.	
PAROLLES. Right; as 'twere a man assur'd of a-	
PAROLLES. Sir, for a cardecue he will sell the fee-simple of his	
PAROLLES. So I say-both of Galen and Paracelsus.	
PAROLLES. That's for advantage.	
PAROLLES. There is none. Man, setting down before you, will	
PAROLLES. Under Mars, I.	
PAROLLES. Well, I shall be wiser.	
PAROLLES. What the devil should move me to undertake the recovery	
PAROLLES. Why under Man?	
PATROCLUS. What, art thou devout? Wast thou in prayer?	
PATROCLUS. Who keeps the tent now?	
PEDANT. Ay, sir; so his mother says, if I may believe her.	
PEDANT. Help, son! help, Signior Baptista!     Exit from above	
PEDANT. O, sir, I do; and will repute you ever	
PERCY. The grand conspirator, Abbot of Westminster,	
PETER. He kills her in her own humour.	
PETER. [Presenting his petition] Against my master, Thomas Horner,	
PETRUCHIO. Ay, to the proof, as mountains are for winds,	
PETRUCHIO. Come, come, you wasp; i' faith, you are too angry.	
PETRUCHIO. Did ever Dian so become a grove	
PETRUCHIO. Father, 'tis thus: yourself and all the world	
PETRUCHIO. Happily met; the happier for thy son.	
PETRUCHIO. I say she shall. And first begin with her.	
PETRUCHIO. Now by my mother's son, and that's myself,	
PETRUCHIO. O, ho! entreat her!	
PETRUCHIO. O, pardon me, Signior Gremio! I would fain be doing.	
PETRUCHIO. Peace, sirrah!	
PETRUCHIO. Roundly replied.	
PETRUCHIO. Signior Hortensio, come you to part the fray?	
PETRUCHIO. YOU peasant swain! you whoreson malt-horse drudge!	
PETRUCHIO. You lie, in faith, for you are call'd plain Kate,	
PHEBE. For no ill will I bear you.	
PHEBE. Why, that were covetousness.	
PHILARIO. Have patience, sir,	
PHILO,                 "    "   "	
PHILOTUS. Labouring for nine.	
PHRYNIA AND TIMANDRA. Well, more gold. What then?	
PISANIO. First, make yourself but like one.	
PISANIO. He hath been search'd among the dead and living,	
PISANIO. I have, my lord, at my lodging, the same suit he wore when	
PISANIO. Madam, I shall.                                Exeunt	
PISANIO. My lord your son drew on my master.	
PISANIO. O gentlemen, help!	
PISANIO. O gracious lady,	
PISANIO. Then, sir,	
PISANIO. Wake, my mistress!	
PISANIO. Well, madam, we must take a short farewell,	
PISTOL. Base Troyan, thou shalt die.	
PISTOL. Fortune is Bardolph's foe, and frowns on him;	
PISTOL. I will retort the sum in equipage.	
PISTOL. In cash most justly paid.	
PISTOL. Tell him my fury shall abate, and I	
PISTOL. The plain-song is most just; for humours do abound:	
PISTOL. Thrust him down stairs! Know we not Galloway nags?	
PISTOL. Touch her soft mouth and march.	
PISTOL. Why, then, let kibes ensue.	
PISTOL. With liver burning hot. Prevent, or go thou,	
PLANTAGENET. And so thrive Richard as thy foes may fall!	
PLANTAGENET. How I am brav'd, and must perforce endure	
PLANTAGENET. Meantime your cheeks do counterfeit our	
PLANTAGENET. O uncle, would some part of my young years	
POET. Admirable. How this grace	
POET. Ay, that's well known.	
POET. Hail, worthy Timon!	
POINS. Deliver'd with good respect. And how doth the martlemas,	
POINS. I am your shadow, my lord; I'll follow you.	
POINS. Is it not strange that desire should so many years outlive	
POINS. O that this blossom could be kept from cankers!	
POMPEY. Here comes Signior Claudio, led by the provost to prison;	
POMPEY. No; but there's a woman with maid by him. You have not	
POMPEY. Sir, but you shall come to it, by your honour's leave. And,	
POMPEY. Very well; you being then, if you be rememb'red, cracking	
PORTIA. Ay, but I fear you speak upon the rack,	
PORTIA. By my troth, Nerissa, my little body is aweary of this	
PORTIA. Come on, Nerissa, I have work in hand	
PORTIA. Come, draw the curtain, Nerissa.	
PORTIA. Good sentences, and well pronounc'd.	
PORTIA. I pray thee over-name them; and as thou namest them, I will	
PORTIA. I remember him well, and I remember him worthy of thy	
PORTIA. So doth the greater glory dim the less:	
PORTIA. Speak not so grossly. You are all amaz'd.	
PORTIA. Then you shall be his surety. Give him this,	
PORTIA. What ring gave you, my lord?	
PORTIA. You must take your chance,	
POSTHUMUS. Fear it not, sir; I would I were so sure	
POSTHUMUS. I am, sir,	
POSTHUMUS. O, no, no, no! 'tis true. Here, take this too;	
POSTHUMUS. Sir, with all my heart. This worthy signior, I thank	
POSTHUMUS. The stone's too hard to come by.	
POSTHUMUS. Which by their graces I will keep.	
POSTHUMUS. [Waking] Sleep, thou has been a grandsire and begot	
PRIAM, King of Troy	
PRIAM. What noise, what shriek is this?	
PRINCE HENRY. How fares your Majesty?	
PRINCE HUMPHREY. No, my good lord, he is in presence here.	
PRINCE HUMPHREY. O, good my lord, you have lost a friend indeed;	
PRINCE JOHN. Fare you well, Falstaff. I, in my condition,	
PRINCE JOHN. I like this fair proceeding of the King's.	
PRINCE JOHN. You are well encount'red here, my cousin Mowbray.	
PRINCE OF MOROCCO. Even for that I thank you.	
PRINCE OF WALES. My gracious father, by your kingly leave,	
PRINCE. Good lords, make all the speedy haste you may.	
PRINCE. Has not the boy profited?	
PRINCE. How now! Rain within doors, and none abroad!	
PRINCE. My Lord of York will still be cross in talk.	
PRINCE. Sirrah, you boy, and Bardolph, no word to your master that	
PRINCE. What wouldst thou think of me if I should weep?	
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Alas, poor Maccabaeus, how hath he been baited!	
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. All pride is willing pride, and yours is so.	
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. God bless my ladies! Are they all in love,	
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Good Lord Boyet, my beauty, though but mean,	
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. I will; and therefore keep it. Rosaline,	
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. O poverty in wit, kingly-poor flout!	
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Saint Dennis to Saint Cupid! What are they	
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Sweet hearts, we shall be rich ere we depart,	
PRINCESS OF FRANCE. The thickest and the tallest.	
PROCULEIUS. Caesar, I shall.                              Exit	
PROSPERO.  [Aside]  I had forgot that foul conspiracy	
PROSPERO.  [Aside]  Praise in departing.	
PROSPERO. But as 'tis,	
PROSPERO. Come on; obey.	
PROSPERO. Hear a little further,	
PROSPERO. Hey, Mountain, hey!	
PROSPERO. How now, moody?	
PROSPERO. Mark but the badges of these men, my lords,	
PROSPERO. My brave spirit!	
PROSPERO. Of the King's ship,	
PROSPERO. The fringed curtains of thine eye advance,	
PROSPERO. Thou and thy meaner fellows your last service	
PROVOST. Ay, my good lord; a very virtuous maid,	
PROVOST. Come, sir, leave me your snatches and yield me a direct	
PROVOST. Here in the prison, father,	
PROVOST. Here, if it like your honour.	
PROVOST. In good time.                            Exit PROVOST	
PROVOST. This shall be done, good father, presently.	
PROVOST. [Aside] Heaven give thee moving graces.	
PROVOST. [Going] Save your honour!	
PUCELLE, that witch, that damned sorceress,	
PUCELLE. Look on thy country, look on fertile France,	
PUCELLE. Of all base passions fear is most accurs'd.	
PUCELLE. Paysans, pauvres gens de France	
PUCELLE. Then lead me hence-with whom I leave my	
PUCELLE. Will nothing turn your unrelenting hearts?	
PUCK.       Fairy King, attend and mark;	
PUCK.      Up and down, up and down,	
PUCK. Fear not, my lord; your servant shall do so.      Exeunt	
PUCK. How now, spirit! whither wander you?	
PUCK. I go, I go; look how I go,	
PUCK. I remember.	
PYRAMUS. Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true.	
Padua. BAPTISTA'S house	
Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house	
Painted upon a pole, and underwrit,	
Pales in the flood with men, with wives, and boys,	
Papers of state he sent me to peruse,	
Par. Thou wrong'st it more than tears with that report.	
Pardon me, God, I knew not what I did.	
Paris is gor'd with Menelaus' horn.                      [Alarum]	
Paris is lost; the state of Normandy	
Paris should ne'er retract what he hath done	
Paris. The KING'S palace	
Paris. The KING'S palace	
Parson; for what is 'that' but that, and 'is' but is?	
Patience awhile, good Cassio. Come, come;	
Patroclus ta'en, or slain; and Palamedes	
Pawn their experience to their present pleasure,	
Pawn'd with the other; for the poor rude world	
Paying the fine of rated treachery	
Pays this for Marcus Crassus.	
Peace and content be here! Lord Timon! Timon!	
Peace is a very apoplexy, lethargy; mull'd, deaf, sleepy,	
Pedro. Gentlemen both, we will not wake your patience.	
Pedro. Good den, brother.	
Pedro. I will but teach them to sing and restore them to the owner.	
Pedro. It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other, if she	
Pedro. See, see! Here comes the man we went to seek.	
Pedro. She were an excellent wife for Benedick.	
Pedro. The former Hero! Hero that is dead!	
Pedro. Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite of	
Pedro. To be whipt? What's his fault?	
Pedro. Well, you will temporize with the hours. In the meantime,	
Perchance the Cardinal cannot make your peace;	
Perforce be their acquaintance. These exactions,	
Perforce, against all checks, rebukes, and manners,	
Perpend.	
Persever not, but hear me, mighty kings.	
Persuade this rude wretch willingly to die.	
Persuades me I was better when a king;	
Petitioners for blood thou ne'er put'st back.	
Peto. Falstaff! Fast asleep behind the arras, and snorting like a	
Peto. Good morrow, good my lord.	
Pindarus ascends the hill.	
Pioners and all, had tasted her sweet body,	
Pisa, renowned for grave citizens,	
Place barrels of pitch upon the fatal stake,	
Pleads your fair usage; and to Diomed	
Pleas'd with this dainty bait, thus goes to bed.	
Plies Desdemona to repair his fortune,	
Plough Rome and harrow Italy; I'll never	
Poins. Down fell their hose.	
Poins. How the rogue roar'd!                           Exeunt.	
Poins. Tut! our horses they shall not see- I'll tie them in the	
Poins. Villains!	
Poins. [within] Francis!	
Pointing on him.	
Pol. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,	
Pol. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave	
Pol. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.	
Pol. Marry, well bethought!	
Pol. Not I, my lord.	
Pol. Ophelia, walk you here.- Gracious, so please you,	
Pol. That hath made him mad.	
Pol. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.	
Pol. What is the matter, my lord?	
Pol. You know sometimes he walks four hours together	
Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.	
Poor I was slain when Bassianus died.	
Poor rogue hereditary. Hence, be gone.	
Possess the people in Messina here	
Power as he was a councillor to try him,	
Praising her when I am dumb.	
Pray God the Duke of York excuse himself!	
Pray God the plants thou graft'st may never grow!	
Presents thy shadow to my sightless view,	
Presents well worthy Rome's imperious lord;	
Preserve the King!                               [They wake]	
Pretty and witty; wild, and yet, too, gentle;	
Pretty soul! she durst not lie	
Pride, haughtiness, opinion, and disdain;	
Prince's subjects.	
Prince. Anon, Francis? No, Francis; but to-morrow, Francis; or,	
Prince. Bardolph!	
Prince. By God, thou hast deceiv'd me, Lancaster!	
Prince. Come, Montague; for thou art early up	
Prince. Come, brother John; full bravely hast thou flesh'd	
Prince. Do not think so. You shall not find it so.	
Prince. I comes forward I Peace, ye fat-kidney'd rascal! What a	
Prince. I'll make it greater ere I part from thee,	
Prince. It will not be accepted, on my life.	
Prince. Look, and thou shalt see.	
Prince. Ned, prithee come out of that fat-room and lend me thy hand	
Prince. O monstrous! Eleven buckram men grown out of two!	
Prince. Prithee do, Jack.	
Prince. So please your Majesty, I would I could	
Prince. Stand close.                        [They step aside.]	
Prince. That ever this fellow should have fewer words than a	
Prince. We two saw you four set on four, and bound them and were	
Prince. What! he did not?	
Prince. Where is it, Jack? Where is it?	
Prince. Why then, it is like, if there come a hot June, and this	
Prince. Why, how couldst thou know these men in Kendal green when	
Prithee, how many boys and wenches must I have?	
Proceed to judgment. By my soul I swear	
Prodigious, and untimely brought to light,	
Proper deformity seems not in the fiend	
Protector?	
Proud majesty a subject, state a peasant.	
Prove but our marriage lawful, by my life	
Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.'	
Pursuit would be but vain.	
Put colour in thy cheek.	
Put on a most importunate aspect,	
Put them in secret holds, both Barnardine and Claudio.	
Puts on his pretty looks, repeats his words,	
QUEEN ELIZABETH. A parlous boy! Go to, you are too	
QUEEN ELIZABETH. And must she die for this? O, let her	
QUEEN ELIZABETH. As little joy, my lord, as you suppose	
QUEEN ELIZABETH. As much to you, good sister! Whither	
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Give me no help in lamentation;	
QUEEN ELIZABETH. That thou hast wronged in the time	
QUEEN ELIZABETH. The Countess Richmond, good my Lord	
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Though far more cause, yet much less	
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Thy self is self-misus'd.	
QUEEN ELIZABETH. Well, then, who dost thou mean shall be	
QUEEN ELIZABETH. What were I best to say? Her father's	
QUEEN KATHARINE. O, good my lord, no Latin!	
QUEEN KATHARINE. What need you note it? Pray you keep your way;	
QUEEN KATHARINE. Ye tell me what ye wish for both-my ruin.	
QUEEN MARGARET. Hie thee to hell for shame and leave this	
QUEEN MARGARET. King Lewis and Lady Bona, hear me speak	
QUEEN MARGARET. Let me give humble thanks for all at once.	
QUEEN MARGARET. O Ned, sweet Ned, speak to thy mother, boy!	
QUEEN MARGARET. So part we sadly in this troublous world,	
QUEEN MARGARET. This cheers my heart, to see your forwardness.	
QUEEN MARGARET. Thou hadst a Clarence too, and Richard	
QUEEN MARGARET. Why, so I did, but look'd for no reply.	
QUEEN MARGARET. [Aside] If that go forward, Henry's hope is done.	
QUEEN. Beseech your patience.- Peace,	
QUEEN. How fares my lord? Help, lords! The King is dead.	
QUEEN. Marry, God forfend!	
QUEEN. My hope is gone, now Suffolk is deceas'd.	
QUEEN. Royal sir,	
QUEEN. So longest way shall have the longest moans.	
QUEEN. This way for me.                       Exeunt severally	
QUEEN. This way the King will come; this is the way	
QUEEN. We thank you all.                            [Flourish]	
QUEEN. You are most bound to th' King,	
QUICKLY. And Master Slender's your master?	
QUICKLY. Ay me, he'll find the young man there, and be	
QUICKLY. Go; and we'll have a posset for't soon at night, in	
QUICKLY. What, John Rugby? John!	
QUINTUS. Father, and in that name doth nature speak-	
QUINTUS. Reach me thy hand, that I may help thee out,	
QUINTUS. Thy hand once more; I will not loose again,	
Queen. Alack,	
Queen. As kill a king?	
Queen. Came this from Hamlet to her?	
Queen. Did you assay him	
Queen. For love of God, forbear him!	
Queen. O, confound the rest!	
Queen. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.	
Queen. To whom do you speak this?	
REIGNIER, ALENCON, and soldiers	
RICHARD PLANTAGENET, VERNON, and another LAWYER	
RICHARD. I cannot weep, for all my body's moisture	
RICHARD. I'll prove the contrary, if you'll hear me speak.	
RICHARD. Revoke that doom of mercy, for 'tis Clifford;	
RICHARD. Three glorious suns, each one a perfect sun;	
RICHMOND, SIR WILLIAM BRANDON, OXFORD, DORSET,	
RICHMOND. Good night, good Captain Blunt. Come,	
RIVERS. Come, Grey; come, Vaughan; let us here embrace.	
RIVERS. Madam, bethink you, like a careful mother,	
RIVERS. My Lord of Gloucester, in those busy days	
ROBIN.  [Within]  Mistress Ford, Mistress Ford! here's	
RODERIGO.                      Patience, good sir.	
RODERIGO. And that you would have me to do?	
RODERIGO. Faith, I have heard too much, for your words and	
RODERIGO. I cannot believe that in her; she's full of most blest	
RODERIGO. I will incontinently drown myself.	
RODERIGO. It is silliness to live when to live is torment, and then	
ROMAN. There hath been in Rome strange insurrections: the people	
ROSALIND. 'Tis he; slink by, and note him.	
ROSALIND. And I am your Rosalind.	
ROSALIND. Are you not good?	
ROSALIND. But for the bloody napkin?	
ROSALIND. By my troth, and in good earnest, and so God mend me, and	
ROSALIND. Counterfeit, I assure you.	
ROSALIND. Do, young sir; your reputation shall not therefore be	
ROSALIND. Gentleman,        [Giving him a chain from her neck]	
ROSALIND. I'll have no worse a name than Jove's own page,	
ROSALIND. Jove, Jove! this shepherd's passion	
ROSALIND. Nay; now thou goest from Fortune's office to Nature's:	
ROSALIND. No, faith, hate him not, for my sake.	
ROSALIND. O coz, coz, coz, my pretty little coz, that thou didst	
ROSALIND. Peace, I say. Good even to you, friend.	
ROSALIND. So I do; but, i' faith, I should have been a woman by	
ROSALIND. There were none principal; they were all like one another	
ROSALIND. Well,. this is the Forest of Arden.	
ROSALIND. Were it not better,	
ROSALIND. With bills on their necks: 'Be it known unto all men by	
ROSALINE. Another of these students at that time	
ROSALINE. But that you take what doth to you belong,	
ROSALINE. I would you knew.	
ROSALINE. Is the fool sick?	
ROSALINE. No point, with my knife.	
ROSALINE. Nor shall not, if I do as I intend.	
ROSALINE. We can afford no more at such a price.	
ROSALINE. What's your dark meaning, mouse, of this light word?	
ROSALINE. Why, that they have; and bid them so be gone.	
ROSS. He hath not money for these Irish wars,	
ROSS. No good at all that I can do for him;	
ROSS. The King hath happily received, Macbeth,	
RUGBY. Out, alas! here comes my master.	
RUGBY. Sir?	
RUTLAND. Ah, whither shall I fly to scape their hands?	
RUTLAND. Di faciant laudis summa sit ista tuae!         [Dies]	
RUTLAND. Then let my father's blood open it again:	
Ran hither to your Grace; whom I beseech	
Rascals should have't. Do not assume my likeness.	
Rather than Paris. These are news indeed!	
Rather than envy you.	
Rather than life preserv'd with infamy.	
Rather than so, come, Fate, into the list,	
Re-enter ARVIRAGUS, with IMOGEN as dead, bearing	
Re-enter Antony.	
Re-enter BAPTISTA, GREMIO, and TRANIO	
Re-enter BARDOLPH, with sack	
Re-enter BIGOT and attendants, who bring in	
Re-enter BIONDELLO	
Re-enter BRUTUS and SICINIUS, the rabble again	
Re-enter CLOWN, with a letter, and FABIAN	
Re-enter CRESSIDA	
Re-enter CURTIS	
Re-enter FORD, PAGE, CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS	
Re-enter GREMIO	
Re-enter LAFEU with HELENA	
Re-enter LUCIUS and MARCUS	
Re-enter MARIA with MALVOLIO	
Re-enter MENENIUS with BRUTUS and SICINIUS	
Re-enter MISTRESS FORD	
Re-enter MISTRESS FORD, with two SERVANTS	
Re-enter MOTH with COSTARD	
Re-enter Othello and Attendants.	
Re-enter PAGE	
Re-enter PATROCLUS	
Re-enter PORTER With keys	
Re-enter PROVOST	
Re-enter PUCK, and BOTTOM with an ass's head	
Re-enter SERVANT, with wine	
Re-enter SERVANTS severally	
Re-enter SUFFOLK and WARWICK, with their weapons drawn	
Re-enter TITUS LARTIUS	
Re-enter WARWICK	
Re-enter WESTMORELAND	
Re-enter a SERVINGMAN	
Re-enter the KING	
Read here, young Arthur.                        [Showing a paper]	
Read not my blemishes in the world's report.	
Ready they were to shoot me to the heart.	
Receiv'd a second life; and second father	
Receive each other. God speak this Amen!	
Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,	
Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch.	
Reft of his brother, but retain'd his name-	
Reg. But are my brother's pow'rs set forth?	
Reg. Hang him instantly.	
Reg. Not altogether so.	
Reg. Sick, O, sick!	
Reg. That's as we list to grace him.	
Reg. Till noon? Till night, my lord, and all night too!	
Reg. To whose hands have you sent the lunatic King?	
Reg. We shall further think on't.	
Reg. Why not, my lord? If then they chanc'd to slack ye,	
Reign in this kingdom?	
Reignier, her father, to the King of France	
Rely upon it till my tale be heard,	
Remain in't as thou mayst.	
Remember me at court, where I was taught	
Remembrance of my father-in-law, the Duke,	
Remove from her the means of all annoyance,	
Remove you hence. I knew you at the first	
Renounce your soil, give sheep in lions' stead:	
Repair thy wit, good youth, or it will fall	
Repeal him with the welcome of his mother;	
Reposing on a cushion.	
Reprieve thee from thy fate, it should proceed.	
Reprove the brown for rashness, and they them	
Requires a fitter place.	
Requires nor child nor woman's face to see.	
Requite him for your father.	
Rescue thy mistress, if thou be a man.	
Resign thy chair, and where I stand kneel thou,	
Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature	
Retain but privilege of a private man?	
Returning were as tedious as go o'er.	
Revenge the heavens for old Andronicus!                 Exit	
Revenge upon the Cardinal.	
Rey. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and	
Reynaldo, servant to Polonius.	
Rich stuffs, and ornaments of household; which	
Richer than wealth, prouder than garments' costs,	
Rides on the posting winds and doth belie	
Right true it is your son Lucentio here	
Ripe for exploits and mighty enterprises.	
Rising and cawing at the gun's report,	
Robbed others' beds' revenues of their rents.	
Rom. Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy	
Rom. And bad'st me bury love.	
Rom. By a name	
Rom. Farewell, farewell! One kiss, and I'll descend.	
Rom. Good morrow, father.	
Rom. Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death';	
Rom. So thrive my soul-	
Rom. Thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there	
Rom. Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee	
Rom. What, shall I groan and tell thee?	
Rom. With Rosaline, my ghostly father? No.	
Rom. Yet 'banished'? Hang up philosophy!	
Rom. Your plantain leaf is excellent for that.	
Rome's royal mistress, mistress of my heart,	
Rome, thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods!	
Rome. A public place	
Rome. A public place	
Rome. A street	
Rome. The palace	
Ros. Both your Majesties	
Ros. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.	
Ros. I understand you not, my lord.	
Ros. To what end, my lord?	
Ros. We shall, my lord.	
Rough cradle for such little pretty ones.	
Rough-hew them how we will-	
Rous'd on the sudden from their drowsy beds,	
Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.	
SALERIO. Ay, marry, I'll be gone about it straight.	
SALERIO. Do we so.                                      Exeunt	
SALERIO. He is ready at the door; he comes, my lord.	
SALERIO. Marry, well rememb'red;	
SALERIO. Not one, my lord.	
SALERIO. That's certain, if the devil may be her judge.	
SALERIO. That's certain; I, for my part, knew the tailor that made	
SALERIO. Why, I am sure, if he forfeit, thou wilt not take his	
SALERIO. Why, yet it lives there uncheck'd that Antonio hath a ship	
SALISBURY. Come, leave your drinking and fall to blows.	
SALISBURY. God's arm strike with us! 'tis a fearful odds.	
SALISBURY. I did not think the King so stor'd with friends.	
SALISBURY. Nay, 'tis in a manner done already;	
SALISBURY. Nor near nor farther off, my gracious lord,	
SALISBURY. Pardon me, madam,	
SALISBURY. Peter? What more?	
SALISBURY. Pride went before, ambition follows him.	
SALISBURY. Stand by, or I shall gall you, Faulconbridge.	
SALISBURY. Therefore, to be possess'd with double pomp,	
SALISBURY. Thump? Then see thou thump thy master well.	
SALISBURY. You breathe these dead news in as dead an ear.	
SANDYS. By my faith,	
SANDYS. I told your Grace they would talk anon.	
SANDYS. They have all new legs, and lame ones. One would take it,	
SANDYS. Yes, if I make my play.	
SATURNINUS. Rise, Titus, rise; my Empress hath prevail'd.	
SATURNINUS. Titus Andronicus, for thy favours done	
SATURNINUS. Traitor, if Rome have law or we have power,	
SATURNINUS. What, madam! be dishonoured openly,	
SAY. Ah, countrymen! if when you make your pray'rs,	
SAY. You men of Kent-	
SCARUS. For both, my lord.	
SCENE 2	
SCENE 2	
SCENE 2.	
SCENE 3.	
SCENE 4.	
SCENE 4.	
SCENE 4.	
SCENE 4.	
SCENE 5.	
SCENE 6.	
SCENE 7.	
SCENE I.	
SCENE I.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE II.	
SCENE III.	
SCENE III.	
SCENE III.	
SCENE III.	
SCENE III.	
SCENE III.	
SCENE III.	
SCENE III.	
SCENE IV.	
SCENE IV.	
SCENE IV.	
SCENE IV.	
SCENE IV.	
SCENE IV.	
SCENE IV.	
SCENE IX.	
SCENE V.	
SCENE V.	
SCENE V.	
SCENE V.	
SCENE V.	
SCENE VI.	
SCENE VI.	
SCENE VII.	
SCENE VII.	
SCENE VIII.	
SCENE:	
SCENE:	
SCOUT. Success unto our valiant general,	
SCROOP. Ay, all of them at Bristow lost their heads.	
SCROOP. Men judge by the complexion of the sky	
SCROOP. So did you me, my liege.	
SEBASTIAN, brother of Viola	
SEBASTIAN, his brother	
SEBASTIAN. Foul weather?	
SEBASTIAN. He is drunk now; where had he wine?	
SEBASTIAN. He's gone.	
SEBASTIAN. O, that record is lively in my soul!	
SEBASTIAN. Prithee say on.	
SEBASTIAN. So, you're paid.	
SECOND CITIZEN. Give him a statue with his ancestors.	
SECOND CITIZEN. Nay, but speak not maliciously.	
SECOND CITIZEN. Room for Antony, most noble Antony.	
SECOND CITIZEN. So did we all. But come, let's home.	
SECOND CITIZEN. Whither are you going?	
SECOND CONSPIRATOR. Most noble sir,	
SECOND GAOLER. Ay, or a stomach.                Exeunt GAOLERS	
SECOND GENTLEMAN. 'Thou shalt not steal'?	
SECOND GENTLEMAN. After all this, how did he bear him-self	
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Alas, good lady!                       [Trumpets]	
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Amen.	
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Certainly	
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Indeed, good lady,	
SECOND GENTLEMAN. O, God save ye!	
SECOND GENTLEMAN. Save you, good madam.	
SECOND GENTLEMAN. They do discharge their shot of courtesy-	
SECOND GENTLEMAN. What two reverend bishops	
SECOND GENTLEMAN. What's his name and birth?	
SECOND GROOM. The trumpets have sounded twice.	
SECOND LORD. A thousand pieces!	
SECOND LORD. He pours it out: Plutus, the god of gold,	
SECOND LORD. How deep?	
SECOND LORD. In like manner was I in debt to my importunate	
SECOND LORD. Know you the quality of Lord Timon's fury?	
SECOND LORD. None in the world; but return with an invention, and	
SECOND LORD. Thou hast done a deed whereat valour will weep.	
SECOND LORD. We cannot afford you so.	
SECOND LORD. With more than common thanks I will receive it.	
SECOND LORD. You're loved, sir;	
SECOND LORD. [Aside] As many inches as you have oceans.	
SECOND LORD. [Aside] I wish not so; unless it had been the fall of	
SECOND MERCHANT. To see a reverend Syracusian merchant,	
SECOND MURDERER. And he that hath commanded is our	
SECOND MURDERER. I would he knew that I had sav'd his	
SECOND MURDERER. Make peace with God, for you must die,	
SECOND SENATOR. Weapons, weapons, weapons!	
SECOND SERVANT. And I shall.                              Exit	
SECOND SERVANT. Faith, look you, one cannot tell how to say that;	
SECOND SERVANT. So did I, I'll be sworn. He is simply the rarest	
SECOND SERVING-MAN. Do what ye dare, we are as resolute.	
SECOND SOLDIER. 'Tis the god Hercules, whom Antony lov'd,	
SECOND SOLDIER. Belike 'tis but a rumour. Good night to you.	
SECOND SOLDIER. Soldiers, have careful watch.	
SECOND VARRO'S SERVANT. My lord-	
SECOND WATCH. Howsoever you have been his liar, as you say you	
SECOND WATCH. The worthy fellow is our general; he's the rock, the	
SECOND WITCH. Not so happy, yet much happier.	
SENATOR. Get on your cloak and haste you to Lord Timon;	
SERVANT to Troilus	
SERVANT. A messenger from Caesar.	
SERVANT. Here's my lord.	
SERVANT. Madam, I will.                                  Exit.	
SERVANT. Sir John!	
SERVANT. Sir, Octavius is already come to Rome.	
SERVANT. There is ten thousand-	
SERVANT. Who shall I command, sir?	
SERVILIUS. Good gods!	
SERVILIUS. If I might beseech you, gentlemen, to repair some other	
SERVILIUS. See, by good hap, yonder's my lord; I have sweat to see	
SHALLOW.  [To PAGE] Will you go with us to behold it? My	
SHALLOW. Death is certain. Is old Double of your town living yet?	
SHALLOW. Ha! o' my life, if I were young again, the sword	
SHALLOW. Ha, 'twas a merry night. And is Jane Nightwork alive?	
SHALLOW. Ha, ha, ha! You can do it, sir; you can do it. I commend	
SHALLOW. Here is two more call'd than your number. You must have	
SHALLOW. I must excuse myself, Master Ford.	
SHALLOW. It appears so, by his weapons. Keep them asunder;	
SHALLOW. Knight, you have beaten my men, kill'd my deer,	
SHALLOW. Save you, Master Doctor Caius!	
SHALLOW. Shall I prick him, Sir John?	
SHALLOW. Sir John, the Lord bless you; God prosper your affairs;	
SHALLOW. The Council shall hear it; it is a riot.	
SHALLOW. The Council shall know this.	
SHALLOW. Tut, sir, I could have told you more. In these	
SHALLOW. Yea, marry, Sir John; which I beseech you to let me have	
SHALLOW. You may, by marrying.	
SHEPHERD. Ah, Joan, this kills thy father's heart outright!	
SHYLOCK. Antonio is a good man.	
SHYLOCK. Most learned judge! A sentence! Come, prepare.	
SHYLOCK. There I have another bad match: a bankrupt, a prodigal,	
SHYLOCK. What, wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice?	
SHYLOCK. When it is paid according to the tenour.	
SHYLOCK. Yes, to smell pork, to eat of the habitation which your	
SICINIUS. God-den, our neighbours.	
SICINIUS. Has spoken like a traitor and shall answer	
SICINIUS. Have you a catalogue	
SICINIUS. I would he had continued to his country	
SICINIUS. Let's not meet her.	
SICINIUS. May they perceive's intent! He will require them	
SICINIUS. Was ever man so proud as is this Marcius?	
SICINIUS. We hear not of him, neither need we fear him.	
SICINIUS. We'll meet them,	
SICINIUS. Your Coriolanus is not much miss'd	
SILENCE. Dead, sir.	
SILENCE. You were call'd 'lusty Shallow' then, cousin.	
SILVIUS. It is to be all made of faith and service;	
SILVIUS. It is to be all made of sighs and tears;	
SILVIUS. No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess,	
SILVIUS. No, I protest, I know not the contents;	
SILVIUS. Sure, it is hers.	
SIMPLE. I would I could have spoken with the woman	
SIR OLIVER MARTEXT, a vicar	
SIR TOBY. 'Thou kill'st me like a rogue and a villain.'	
SIR TOBY. A false conclusion! I hate it as an unfill'd can. To be	
SIR TOBY. Accost, Sir Andrew, accost.	
SIR TOBY. And with what wing the staniel checks at it!	
SIR TOBY. Ay, but he will not now be pacified; Fabian can scarce	
SIR TOBY. Ay, or I'll cudgel him, and make him cry 'O!'	
SIR TOBY. Out, scab!	
SIR TOBY. Past question; for thou seest it will not curl by nature.	
SIR TOBY. Peace, I say.	
SIR TOBY. Pourquoi, my dear knight?	
SIR TOBY. What is thy excellence in a galliard, knight?	
SIR TOBY. Why, he has three thousand ducats a year.	
SIR TOBY. Why, man, he's a very devil; I have not seen such a	
SIR TOBY. Will you encounter the house? My niece is desirous you	
SIR TOBY. Will you help- an ass-head and a coxcomb and a knave, a	
SIR TOBY. [Sings] O' the twelfth day of December-	
SIR TOBY. [To VIOLA] There's no remedy, sir: he will fight with you	
SLENDER. All his successors, gone before him, hath done't;	
SLENDER. Ay, it is no matter.	
SLENDER. I came yonder at Eton to marry Mistress Anne	
SLENDER. My Will! 'Od's heartlings, that's a pretty jest	
SLY. I am Christophero Sly; call not me 'honour' nor 'lordship.' I	
SLY. Well, we'll see't. Come, madam wife, sit by my side and let	
SNUG, a joiner	
SOLANIO. And so will I.	
SOLANIO. I never heard a passion so confus'd,	
SOLANIO. Why then you are in love.	
SOLDIER. I'll be so bold to take what they have left.	
SOLDIER. Jack Cade! Jack Cade!	
SOLDIERS. [Speaking together] How now!	
SOMERSET. How now, Sir William! Whither were you sent?	
SOMERSET. If Somerset be unworthy of the place,	
SOMERSET. It shall be so; he shall to Brittany.	
SOMERSET. That all your interest in those territories	
SONG	
SONG	
SOOTHSAYER. Beware the ides of March.	
SOOTHSAYER. Caesar!	
SOOTHSAYER. I have said.	
SOOTHSAYER. I see it in my motion, have it not in my tongue; but	
SOOTHSAYER. Last night the very gods show'd me a vision-	
SOOTHSAYER. To none but thee; no more but when to thee.	
SOOTHSAYER. Your will?	
SPIRIT. Let him shun castles:	
STANLEY did dream the boar did raze our helms,	
STANLEY. None good, my liege, to please you with	
STANLEY. They, for their truth, might better wear their	
STANLEY. Unless for that, my liege, I cannot guess.	
STARVELING, a tailor	
STARVELING. I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is	
STEPHANO. Monster, I will kill this man; his daughter and I	
STEPHANO. Stephano is my name, and I bring word	
STRATO. Ay, if Messala will prefer me to you.	
STRATO. Free from the bondage you are in, Messala:	
SUFFOLK. He doth revive again; madam, be patient.	
SUFFOLK. Here is my hand the deed is worthy doing.	
SUFFOLK. How cam'st thou so?	
SUFFOLK. Lady, vouchsafe to listen what I say.	
SUFFOLK. Look on my George, I am a gentleman:	
SUFFOLK. May be he hears the King	
SUFFOLK. My amen to't!	
SUFFOLK. My lord, these faults are easy, quickly answer'd;	
SUFFOLK. No marvel, an it like your Majesty,	
SUFFOLK. Now, sirs, have you dispatch'd this thing?	
SUFFOLK. O, wert thou for myself! But, Suffolk, stay;	
SUFFOLK. Please it your Majesty, this is the man	
SUFFOLK. What woman is this?	
SUFFOLK. Which of the peers	
SUFFOLK. Why, our authority is his consent,	
SURREY. As false, by heaven, as heaven itself is true.	
SURREY. Dishonourable boy!	
SURREY. Has the King this?	
SURREY. Item, you sent a large commission	
SURREY. My Lord Fitzwater, I do remember well	
SURVEYOR. First, it was usual with him-every day	
Sad stories chanced in the times of old.	
Sad true lover never find my grave,	
Saddle my horse.	
Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains	
Saint Withold footed thrice the 'old;	
Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans every thing.	
Saturn is dominator over mine.	
Save these men's looks; who do, methinks, find out	
Say as you think, and speak it from your souls:	
Say that before Ascension-day at noon	
Say that you love me not; but say not so	
Say thou, shall call her mistress.' So he nodded,	
Say what I think of it, since I have found	
Say what thou canst, I'll go along with thee.	
Say, Scroop, where lies our uncle with his power?	
Say, shall the current of our right run on?	
Saying he'll lade it dry to have his way-	
Saying our grace is only in our heels	
Says it will come to th' full. Mark Antony	
Says that you savour too much of your youth,	
Scaling his present bearing with his past,	
Scarce blood enough in all their sickly veins	
Scarce is dividant- touch them with several fortunes:	
Scene II.	
Scene II.	
Scene IV.	
Scene IV.	
Scene V.	
Scene VI.	
Scene VII.	
Scoffing his state and grinning at his pomp;	
See here, my friends and loving countrymen:	
See how my wretched sister sobs and weeps.	
See how the ugly witch doth bend her brows	
See suitors following and not look behind;	
See, Lucius, see how much she makes of thee.	
See, see, thou hast shot off one of Taurus' horns.	
Seeing the deed is meritorious,	
Seeing thou hast prov'd so unnatural a father!	
Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body	
Seem'd to die too; yea, at that very moment,	
Seemeth their conference; their conceits have wings,	
Seems to prepare his way. So let him land,	
Send him but hither, and I'll fashion him.	
Send one presently to Sir Toby.	
Sends me a paper to persuade me patience?	
Sennet. Flourish. Exeunt all but EXETER	
Sent his poor queen to France, from whence she came.	
Serv. Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his own	
Servants to Cornwall.	
Serve the King, and-prithee lead me in.	
Set down our host. My partner in this action,	
Set forth in your pursuit.	
Set in a notebook, learn'd and conn'd by rote,	
Set it down. Is ink and paper ready?	
Shake in and out the rivet. And at this sport	
Shake in their fear and with pale policy	
Shakes all our buds from growing.	
Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.	
Shall be a fume and the receipt of reason	
Shall be a wall sufficient to defend	
Shall be this cold corpse on the earth's cold face;	
Shall bitterly begin his fearful date	
Shall darken him for ever.	
Shall dizzy with more clamour Neptune's ear	
Shall do and undo as him pleaseth best.	
Shall draw this brief into as huge a volume.	
Shall fact to face be brought to Margaret,	
Shall falter under foul rebellion's arms.	
Shall feel this day as sharp to them as thorn.	
Shall flesh his tooth on every innocent.	
Shall lose his head for his presumption.	
Shall lose me. What! in a town of war,	
Shall make it live again. Woo't thou fight well?	
Shall make their harbour in our town till we	
Shall mark my grave. Commend me to his Grace;	
Shall neigh (no dull flesh) in his fiery race,	
Shall out-tongue his complaints. 'Tis yet to know-	
Shall profit thee, and much enrich thy book.	
Shall see advantageable for our dignity,	
Shall see thy virtue witness'd every where.	
Shall show more goodly and attract more eyes	
Shall sleep no more. Macbeth shall sleep no more."	
Shall sum my count, and make my old excuse'	
Shall tax my fears of little vanity,	
Shall these enjoy our lands? lie with our wives,	
Shall we give o'er Orleans, or no?	
Shall we their fond pageant see?	
Shall weigh thee to the beam; that wilt not know	
Shall win my love; and so I take my leave,	
Shall yield them little, tell the Constable.	
Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death;	
Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus' face.	
Shame come to Romeo!	
Sharp Buckingham unburdens with his tongue	
She comes to do you good.	
She has a huswife's hand- but that's no matter.	
She hath been a suitor to me for her brother,	
She is content to be at your command	
She is not hot, but temperate as the morn;	
She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes	
She knew his love, lest she'll make sport at it.	
She knows the heat of a luxurious bed;	
She shall be buried by her Antony;	
She should have bought her dignities so dear.              Exeunt	
She speaks this in th' infirmity of sense.	
She was a charmer, and could almost read	
She will a handmaid be to his desires,	
She will beshrew me much that Romeo	
She would applaud Andronicus' conceit.	
She's punish'd for her truth, and undergoes,	
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul	
She's there, and she is yours.	
She's very near her hour.	
She, on his left side, craving aid for Henry:	
Sheathing the steel in my advent'rous body.	
Shed thou no blood, nor cut thou less nor more	
Shipwreck'd upon a kingdom, where no pity,	
Shoots buck and doe;	
Should be depos'd; and, being, that we detain	
Should be infused with so foul a spirit!	
Should be still-born, and that we now possess'd	
Should become Kings of Naples? O, rejoice	
Should find a running banquet ere they rested	
Should from encounter guard. Could I find out	
Should have shook lions into civil streets,	
Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!	
Shouting their emulation.	
Show me one scar character'd on thy skin:	
Show not their mealy wings but to the summer;	
Show'r'd on me daily, have been more than could	
Shows; Women attending upon the Queen; Scribes,	
Shut up in Prison, kept without my food,	
Signior Baptista, shall I lead the way?	
Signior Gremio?	
Signior Petruchio, will you go with us,	
Signior Valentio and His cousin Tybalt;	
Since Henry Monmouth first began to reign,	
Since Henry's death, I fear, there is conveyance.	
Since I heard thence; these are the words- I think	
Since I suppose we are made to be no stronger	
Since all alike my songs and praises be	
Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea,	
Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me,	
Since saucy jacks so happy are in this,	
Since that my beauty cannot please his eye,	
Since that my penitence comes after all,	
Since the exile of Posthumus, most retir'd	
Since we have locks to safeguard necessaries	
Since which she was removed to Kimbolton,	
Since you provoke me, shall be most notorious.	
Sings heavy music to thy timorous soul;	
Sir M. But there is Mordake, Vernon, Lord Harry Percy,	
Sir Robert Brakenbury, and Sir William Brandon.	
Sir Thomas Gargrave, hast thou any life?	
Sir boy, I'll whip you from your foining fence!	
Sir, as I have a soul, she is an angel;	
Sir, you and I have lov'd- but there's not it.	
Sirrah young gamester, your father were a fool	
Sirrah, come on.	
Sirrah, get thee to Plashy, to my sister Gloucester;	
Sirrah, what's thy name?	
Sirs, I will practise on this drunken man.	
Sit down, Kate, and welcome. Soud, soud, soud, soud!	
Sith yet there is a credence in my heart,	
Sits in a foggy cloud and stays for me.                Exit.	
Six thousand and two hundred good esquires;	
Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o' nights:	
Sleep in their graves.	
Sleep that knits up the ravel'd sleave of care,	
Slept in his face, and rend'red such aspect	
Slight thing of Italy,	
Slubber not business for my sake, Bassanio,	
Smells wooingly here. No jutty, frieze,	
Smile in men's faces, smooth, deceive, and cog,	
Smithfield. An I could get me but a wife in the stews, I were	
So I may keep mine eyes. O, spare mine eyes,	
So I to her, and so she yields to me;	
So York must sit and fret and bite his tongue,	
So am I as the rich whose blessed key,	
So are they all; for every grise of fortune	
So awake when I am gone;	
So be sure will Rosalinde.	
So be there 'twixt your kingdoms such a spousal	
So bees with smoke and doves with noisome stench	
So do the kings of France unto this day,	
So do you too, where you perceive them thick.	
So doves do peck the falcon's piercing talons;	
So far I read aloud;	
So far exceed all instance, all discourse,	
So farewell.	
So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece,	
So follow to be most unlike our courtiers,	
So from thy soul's love didst thou love her brothers,	
So full of dismal terror was the time!	
So great indignities you laid upon me?	
So help me God, as I have watch'd the night-	
So holy writ in babes hath judgment shown,	
So horrid as in woman.	
So hot a speed with such advice dispos'd,	
So is Alcides beaten by his page;	
So it may prove an argument of laughter	
So justly to your grave ears I'll present	
So kind to heart 'tis not enough to give;	
So let high-sighted tyranny range on	
So long attended thee. If thou wert honourable,	
So make the choice of thy own time, for I,	
So many days my ewes have been with young;	
So many hours must I tend my flock;	
So many mermaids, tended her i' th' eyes,	
So many weeks ere the poor fools will can;	
So much I love his heart. But I perceive	
So much by weight hate I her Diomed.	
So near the Emperor's palace dare ye draw	
So now I have confessed that he is thine,	
So oft have I invoked thee for my muse,	
So please you, save the thanks this prince expects.	
So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick.	
So rare a wond'red father and a wise	
So says the bond; doth it not, noble judge?	
So shall I live, supposing thou art true,	
So shall I no whit be behind in duty	
So shall you share all that he doth possess,	
So should a murderer look- so dead, so grim.	
So should my papers (yellowed with their age)	
So should that beauty which you hold in lease	
So sore as keeping safe Nerissa's ring.               Exeunt	
So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.	
So strive upon your pulse. What! pale again?	
So strongly guarded.  [To ARTHUR]  Cousin, look not sad;	
So sways she level in her husband's heart.	
So swift a pace hath thought that even now	
So tell the Pope, all reverence set apart	
So that my self bring water for my stain,	
So then thou hast but lost the dregs of life,	
So thou being rich in will add to thy will	
So thou through windows of thine age shalt see,	
So thou wilt let me live and feel no pain.	
So thrive it in your game! and so, farewell.	
So to enforce or qualify the laws	
So was I when your Highness banish'd him.	
So was his will in his old feeble body.	
So we could find some pattern of our shame.	
So were their daggers, which unwiped we found	
So when this thief, this traitor, Bolingbroke,	
So will this base and envious discord breed.	
So, Ilion, fall thou next! Come, Troy, sink down;	
So, King, go safely on to seek thy son.               Exeunt	
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,	
Soliciting his wife. Ay, that's the way;	
Some carry-tale, some please-man, some slight zany,	
Some five or six and thirty of his knights,	
Some galled goose of Winchester would hiss.	
Some heavy business hath my lord in hand,	
Some in their hawks and hounds, some in their horse.	
Some lively touches of my daughter's favour.	
Some mark of virtue on his outward parts.	
Some of the chiefest princes of the Goths;	
Some of those branches by the Destinies cut;	
Some one way, some another. Do you know	
Some other time for that.- Beloved Regan,	
Some poison'd by their wives, some sleeping kill'd,	
Some say he's mad; others, that lesser hate him,	
Some say the lark makes sweet division;	
Some slain before, some dying, some their friends	
Some tricks, some quillets, how to cheat the devil!	
Some wine, boys!	
Something in my behalf.	
Something's afore't. Soft, soft! we'll no defence!-	
Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers,	
Son to the Queen, after his own report;	
Songs and Sonnets here.	
Sooner than quittance of desert and merit	
Sorrow concealed, like an oven stopp'd,	
Sorrow so royally in you appears	
Sorrow would solace, and mine age would ease.	
Sorry am I that our good will effects	
Sound a parley. Enter REIGNIER on the walls	
Sound a sennet. Enter the KING, the QUEEN, CARDINAL, SUFFOLK, YORK,	
Sound trumpets. Enter KING, QUEEN, and SOMERSET, on the terrace	
Spare thy Athenian cradle, and those kin	
Speak 'pardon' as 'tis current in our land;	
Speak gentle words, and humbly bend thy knee,	
Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word,	
Speak your griefs softly, I do know you well.	
Speak, Edmund, where's the King? and where's Cordelia?	
Speak, Lavinia, what accursed hand	
Speak, breathe, discuss; brief, short, quick, snap.	
Speak, for my heart is full.	
Speak, good Sicinius.	
Speak, of all loves! I swoon almost with fear.	
Speaking of worth, what worth in you doth grow.	
Speed how it will. I shall ere long have knowledge	
Spending again what is already spent:	
Spied a blossom passing fair	
Sport and repose lock from me day and night,	
Spreads his arms.	
Spurns down her late beloved, all his dependants,	
Spurr'd, gall'd, and tir'd, by jauncing Bolingbroke.	
Stab them, or tear them on thy chariot wheels;	
Stand fast and wear a castle on thy head.	
Stand from him, fellow; wherefore hang'st thou upon him?	
Stand in the plague of custom, and permit	
Stand not amaz'd. The Prince will doom thee death	
Stand to me in this cause. O mother! wife!	
Stand up.	
Star'd each on other, and look'd deadly pale.	
Stay we no longer, dreaming of renown,	
Stay, go, do what you will, the like do I;	
Steel, if thou turn the edge, or cut not out the burly bon'd	
Steps me a little higher than his vow	
Stew'd in his haste, half breathless, panting forth	
Stifle the villain whose unstanched thirst	
Still ride in triumph over all mischance.	
Stoop tamely to the foot of majesty.	
Stoop to the block than these knees bow to any	
Straight in her heart did mercy come,	
Strew good luck, ouphes, on every sacred room,	
Strike a free march to Troy. With comfort go;	
Strike those that make them; and their story is	
Strike, as thou didst at Caesar, for I know,	
Strive to speak big, and clap their female joints	
Strives Bolingbroke to be as great as we?	
Struck pale and bloodless; and thy brother, I,	
Studied so long, sat in the Council House	
Subdu'd the Saxons, and did seat the French	
Such Ethiope words, blacker in their effect	
Such a nut is Rosalinde.	
Such as move men; beside, she hath prosperous art	
Such attribution should the Douglas have	
Such duty as the subject owes the prince,	
Such eyes the widows in Corioli wear,	
Such was the very armour he had on	
Suggest but truth to my divining thoughts,	
Supply me with the habit, and instruct me	
Supply your present wants, and take no doit	
Supposing it a thing impossible-	
Sure there's some wonder in this handkerchief;	
Suspect I may, yet not directly tell,	
Swear.	
Sweet are the uses of adversity,	
Sweet huntsman- Bassianus 'tis we mean-	
Sweets with sweets war not, joy delights in joy:	
Swift, swift, you dragons of the night, that dawning	
Swift-winged with desire to get a grave,	
Syria, Cilicia, and Phoenicia. She	
T' appease their groaning shadows that are gone.	
T' entreat your Grace but in a small request,	
T' extol what it hath done.	
TALBOT, EXETER, the GOVERNOR OF PARIS, and others	
TALBOT. But yet, before we go, let's not forget	
TALBOT. Foul fiend of France and hag of all despite,	
TALBOT. No, no, I am but shadow of myself.	
TALBOT. When first this order was ordain'd, my lords,	
TAMORA. Andronicus himself did take it up.	
TAMORA. Hadst thou in person ne'er offended me,	
TAMORA. Now will I hence about thy business,	
TAMORA. Now will I to that old Andronicus,	
TAMORA. This closing with him fits his lunacy.	
TAMORA. Where is thy brother Bassianus?	
THE DUKE OF VENICE	
THE END	
THE END	
THE END	
THE END	
THE EPILOGUE.	
THE FIRST PART OF HENRY THE SIXTH	
THE TRAGEDY OF CORIOLANUS	
THERSITES. Ha!	
THERSITES. He must fight singly to-morrow with Hector, and is so	
THERSITES. I'll decline the whole question. Agamemnon commands	
THERSITES. Let me carry another to his horse; for that's the more	
THERSITES. Lo, lo, lo, lo, what modicums of wit he utters! His	
THERSITES. No, but he's out a tune thus. What music will be in him	
THERSITES. No, no-I am a rascal; a scurvy railing knave; a very	
THERSITES. Peace, fool! I have not done.	
THERSITES. Prithee, be silent, boy; I profit not by thy talk; thou	
THERSITES. Roguery!	
THERSITES. There's Ulysses and old Nestor-whose wit was mouldy ere	
THERSITES. Thou grumblest and railest every hour on Achilles; and	
THERSITES. Thy knower, Patroclus. Then tell me, Patroclus, what art	
THESEUS, Duke of Athens	
THESEUS. Go, Philostrate,	
THESEUS. Go, one of you, find out the forester;	
THESEUS. Now, fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour	
THESEUS. The kinder we, to give them thanks for nothing.	
THIRD CITIZEN. And so was I; I'll bear you company.	
THIRD CITIZEN. Away, then! Come, seek the conspirators.	
THIRD CITIZEN. But this is something odd.	
THIRD CITIZEN. Let him be Caesar.	
THIRD CITIZEN. You shall have leave.	
THIRD GENTLEMAN. All the land knows that;	
THIRD GENTLEMAN. At length her Grace rose, and with	
THIRD LORD. 'Tis so, be sure of it.	
THIRD LORD. Will't hold? Will't hold?	
THIRD MESSENGER. O, no; wherein Lord Talbot was	
THIRD SERVANT. I would not be a Roman, of all nations;	
THIRD SERVANT. O, this it is that makes your lady mourn!	
THIRD SERVING-MAN. And I will see what physic the tavern	
THIRD SOLDIER. It signs well, does it not?	
THOMAS MOWBRAY, Duke of Norfolk	
THOMAS ROTHERHAM, ARCHBISHOP OF YORK	
TIMON. Always a villain's office or a fool's.	
TIMON. Come not to me again; but say to Athens	
TIMON. Consumptions sow	
TIMON. Dost thou, or dost thou not, heaven's curse upon thee!	
TIMON. Good honest men! Thou draw'st a counterfeit	
TIMON. How shall she be endow'd,	
TIMON. I thank them; and would send them back the plague,	
TIMON. I thank you; you shall hear from me anon;	
TIMON. Let it not cumber your better remembrance. [The banquet	
TIMON. Long live so, and so die! [Exit APEMANTUS] I am quit. More	
TIMON. Love you the maid?	
TIMON. Nay, an you begin to rail on society once, I am sworn not to	
TIMON. O sir, let it not trouble you.	
TIMON. So fitly? Go, bid all my friends again:	
TIMON. The little casket bring me hither.	
TIMON. Think not on't, sir.	
TIMON. Well, sir, I will. Therefore I will, sir, thus:	
TIMON. What means that trump?	
TIMON. What, a knave too?	
TIMON. What, are my doors oppos'd against my passage?	
TIMON. Wherefore?	
TIMON. Women nearest; but men, men are the things themselves. What	
TIMON. You have done our pleasures much grace, fair ladies,	
TIMON. You that way, and you this- but two in company;	
TITINIUS. Hie you, Messala,	
TITUS. 'Stuprum- Chiron- Demetrius.'	
TITUS. Ah, Marcus, Marcus! Brother, well I wot	
TITUS. Fear her not, Lucius; somewhat doth she mean.	
TITUS. How now, Lavinia! Marcus, what means this?	
TITUS. If there were reason for these miseries,	
TITUS. Marcus, even thou hast struck upon my crest,	
TITUS. Now stay your strife. What shall be is dispatch'd.	
TITUS. O, O, O!	
TITUS. Prince Bassianus, leave to plead my deeds.	
TITUS. Sirrah, hast thou a knife? Come let me see it.	
TITUS. Tell me, can you deliver an oration to the Emperor with a	
TITUS. Traitors, away! He rests not in this tomb.	
TOUCHSTONE. By my knavery, if I had it, then I were. But if you	
TOUCHSTONE. Give me your hand. Art thou learned?	
TOUCHSTONE. God 'ild you, sir; I desire you of the like. I press in	
TOUCHSTONE. Good even, good Master What-ye-call't; how do you, sir?	
TOUCHSTONE. I am here with thee and thy goats, as the most	
TOUCHSTONE. Nay, I shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till I break	
TOUCHSTONE. No, truly, unless thou wert hard-favour'd; for honesty	
TOUCHSTONE. Upon a lie seven times removed- bear your body more	
TOUCHSTONE. Your betters, sir.	
TOUCHSTONE. [Aside] I am not in the mind but I were better to be	
TRANIO. Among them know you one Vincentio?	
TRANIO. And is the bride and bridegroom coming home?	
TRANIO. Faith, he is gone unto the taming-school.	
TRANIO. Husht, master! Here's some good pastime toward;	
TRANIO. Master, you look'd so longly on the maid.	
TRANIO. Not possible; for who shall bear your part	
TRANIO. So could I, faith, boy, to have the next wish after,	
TRANIO. Then thou wert best say that I am not Lucentio.	
TRANIO. Well, sir, to do you courtesy,	
TRANIO. Why, sir, I pray, are not the streets as free	
TRINCULO. 'Lord' quoth he! That a monster should be such	
TRINCULO. A most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of	
TRINCULO. But that the poor monster's in drink. An	
TRINCULO. I have been in such a pickle since I saw you	
TRINCULO. If these be true spies which I wear in my head,	
TRINCULO. Thou liest, most ignorant monster: I am in case	
TRINCULO. Wilt come? I'll follow, Stephano.             Exeunt	
TROILUS. Accept distracted thanks.	
TROILUS. Ay, Greek; and that shall be divulged well	
TROILUS. Come, both, you cogging Greeks; have at you	
TROILUS. Come, kiss; and let us part.	
TROILUS. Fie, fie, my brother!	
TROILUS. Good Pandarus! How now, Pandarus!	
TROILUS. I was about to tell thee: when my heart,	
TROILUS. I will be patient; outwardly I will.	
TROILUS. I will corrupt the Grecian sentinels	
TROILUS. It is.	
TROILUS. Nothing, but our undertakings when we vow to weep seas,	
TROILUS. O Cressida! but that the busy day,	
TROILUS. O that I thought it could be in a woman-	
TROILUS. O, sir, to such as boasting show their scars	
TROILUS. What shall she remember?	
TROILUS. Why, there you touch'd the life of our design.	
TROILUS. You are for dreams and slumbers, brother priest;	
TUBAL. Yes, other men have ill luck too: Antonio, as I heard in	
TWO MURDERERS	
Take all the swift advantage of the hours;	
Take from my mouth the wish of happy years.	
Take him away; he knows I know him well.	
Take them away.	
Take up a brace o' th' best of them; yea, the two tribunes.	
Take up the body.	
Take up the rays o' th' beneficial sun,	
Talk of court news; and we'll talk with them too-	
Tantaene animis coelestibus irae?	
Tarry you a little-a-while.                        [Writes]	
Taught him to face me out of his acquaintance,	
Teaches such beauty as a woman's eye?	
Tell him the daughter of the King of France,	
Tell me your counsels, I will not disclose 'em.	
Tell me, how fares our loving mother?	
Tell me, may not a king adopt an heir?	
Tell o'er your woes again by viewing mine.	
Tell them how Edward put to death a citizen	
Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars,	
Tend'ring my person's safety, hath appointed	
Tewksbury mustard; there's no more conceit in him than is in a	
Th' anointed sovereign of sighs and groans,	
Th' idea of her life shall sweetly creep	
Th' immortal gods that hear you. Spare your oaths;	
Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,	
Than I to speak my griefs unspeakable;	
Than I, that have not well the gift of tongue,	
Than a perpetual honour. Dar'st thou die?	
Than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light.	
Than bear so low a sail to strike to thee.	
Than common sleep of all these five the sense.	
Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.	
Than dogs, that are as often beat for barking	
Than drops of blood were in my father's veins.	
Than ever Greek did couple in his arms;	
Than ever they were fair. This man so complete,	
Than from true evidence, of good esteem,	
Than gain which darkens him.	
Than if not look'd on. I will lead the way.	
Than in a nuncio's of more grave aspect.	
Than in possession any jot of pleasure.	
Than in their countenance. Will you hear the letter?	
Than is Prometheus tied to Caucasus.	
Than it should do offense to Michael Cassio;	
Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,	
Than my faint means would grant continuance;	
Than my weak-hearted enemies dare offer.	
Than on a wretch whom nature is asham'd	
Than pity for mischance!	
Than priests and fanes that lie.	
Than some whose tailors are as dear as yours	
Than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been	
Than that which is to approach.	
Than the rebuke you give it.	
Than this kind kiss. O Lord, that lends me life,	
Than twenty silly-ducking observants	
Than two tens to a score.	
Than when thou wert Protector to thy King.	
Than wish a snow in May's new-fangled shows;	
Than wots the miller of; and easy it is	
That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'	
That Brutus leads me on.	
That England shall couch down in fear and yield.	
That France must vail her lofty-plumed crest	
That Harry Duke of Hereford, Rainold Lord Cobham,	
That Hector, by the fifth hour of the sun,	
That I am sudden sick. Quick, and return.        Exit ALEXAS	
That I am to pronounce Augustus Caesar-	
That I am wise. I must have liberty	
That I an accessary needs must be,	
That I can find should merit any hate.	
That I cannot look through. Away, I prithee;	
That I did amplify my judgment in	
That I disdain; but for these other gawds,	
That I have fondly flatter'd her withal.	
That I have given no answer all this while;	
That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test,	
That I have worn a visor and could tell	
That I in your sweet thoughts would be forgot,	
That I may give the local wound a name,	
That I may swear beauty doth beauty lack,	
That I must draw this metal from my side	
That I shall think it a most plenteous crop	
That I should do what I abhor to name,	
That I will deeply put the fashion on,	
That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,	
That I'll resume the shape which thou dost think	
That I, forsooth, am stern and love them not?	
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,	
That Lucentio indeed had Baptista's youngest daughter.	
That Mowbray hath receiv'd eight thousand nobles	
That all the standers-by had wet their cheeks	
That all the treasons for these eighteen years	
That always favour'd him.	
That any Englishman dare give me counsel?	
That anything he sees which moves his liking	
That apprehends no further than this world,	
That art to me as secret and as dear	
That as a waist doth girdle you about	
That at his will he may do danger with.	
That bastes his arrogance with his own seam	
That bear a weighty and a serious brow,	
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;	
That by thy comfortable beams I may	
That calls upon us, by the grace of Grace	
That can do hurt.	
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd	
That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,	
That comes before his eye. This is a practice	
That comes to hazard for my worthless self.	
That could be found.	
That could give more, but that her hand lacks means.	
That could not trace them!	
That cries 'Retire!' if Warwick bid him stay.	
That do converse and waste the time together,	
That do renown this city.	
That does affect it. Once more, fare you well.	
That does afflict each other!	
That dost this habitation where thou keep'st	
That doth my life besiege. Farewell, young lords;	
That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou	
That ever ever I did yet behold!	
That ever eye with sight made heart lament!	
That ever love did make thee run into,	
That ever was survey'd by English eye-	
That every nice offense should bear his comment.	
That every wretch, pining and pale before,	
That eye that told you so look'd but asquint.	
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound	
That faultless may condemn a nobleman!	
That feel the bruises of the days before,	
That fell away have entertainment, but	
That fill the court with quarrels, talk, and tailors.	
That fly me thus? Some villain mountaineers?	
That for a trifle that was bought with blood!	
That from my first have been inclin'd to thrift,	
That gentle physic, given in time, had cur'd me;	
That good Duke Humphrey traitorously is murd'red	
That granted, how canst thou believe an oath?	
That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling	
That greatness should so grossly offer it.	
That grew upon my lips; then laid his leg	
That hadst a wife once call'd Aemilia,	
That happiness and prime can happy call.	
That has done worthy service.	
That has no relish of salvation in't-	
That hath contriv'd this woeful tragedy!	
That have been so bedazzled with the sun	
That have my heart parted betwixt two friends,	
That have stood by and seen our wishes prosper	
That have their alms out of the Empress' chest.	
That he could nothing do but wish and beg	
That he did plot the Duke of Gloucester's death,	
That he did seek the love of fair Olivia.	
That he does weigh too light. My greatest grief,	
That he is a traitor, foul and dangerous,	
That he is grown so great? Age, thou art shamed!	
That he may bless this bay with his tall ship,	
That he thereby may have a likely guess	
That he would wed me, or else die my lover.	
That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus	
That he's your fixed enemy, and revoke	
That heart which now abhors to like his love.         Exeunt	
That her old gloves were on, but 'twas her hands;	
That here by mountaineers lies slain. Alas!	
That here was at the wrestling?	
That his attendant-so his case was like,	
That his blood flows, or that his appetite	
That if King Lewis vouchsafe to furnish us	
That in my mind thy worst all best exceeds?	
That in the ocean seeks another drop,	
That is no fleering tell-tale. Hold, my hand.	
That is now answer'd.	
That is some satire, keen and critical,	
That it intends to do? My Lord of Burgundy,	
That kneel'd unto the buds. Admit him, sir.     Exit SERVANT	
That laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders.	
That late he married- hath referr'd herself	
That leads him to these places; were I his lady	
That leaves look pale, dreading the winter's near.	
That leaves the print of blood where'er it walks.	
That lies on Dian's lap! thou visible god,	
That little thought, when she set footing here,	
That made the air unwholesome when you cast	
That magical word of war, we have effected;	
That make ambition virtue! O, farewell,	
That makes him close his eyes? I'll open them.	
That makes me ugly; and besides, the Moor	
That makes these odds all even.	
That matter needless, of importless burden,	
That may express my love, or thy dear merit?	
That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,	
That may with reasonable swiftness ad	
That mightily deceives you.	
That monsters it, or your fore-vouch'd affection	
That monthly changes in her circled orb,	
That mount the Capitol; join gripes with hands	
That mourn'd for fashion, ignorant what to fear,	
That murd'red my love's cousin- with which grief	
That my woe-wearied tongue is still and mute.	
That never saw 'em pace before, the spavin	
That next by him beneath; so ever step,	
That no compunctious visitings of nature	
That no dissension hinder government.	
That not your trespass but my madness speaks.	
That nothing sung but death to us and ours.	
That numberless upon me stuck, as leaves	
That of all things upon the earth he hated	
That of his bounties taste! The five best Senses	
That of yourself which you yet know not of.	
That our French gallants shall to-day draw out,	
That overtopp'd them all. Betray'd I am.	
That pitiful rumour may report my flight	
That play with all infirmities for gold	
That proof is call'd impossibility.	
That reigns in galled eyes of weeping souls,	
That screws me from my true place in your favour,	
That seem'd in eating him to hold him up,	
That sets him high in fame.	
That shakes the rotten carcass of old Death	
That shall be woo'd and wedded in a day.	
That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit.	
That she may quickly come.	
That she might think me some untutored youth,	
That she should feel the smart of this? The Cardinal	
That she should lock herself from his resort,	
That she'll demand. A ring the County wears	
That shouldst repair my youth, thou heap'st	
That so I harried him. Why, methinks, by him,	
That sought to be encompass'd with your crown.	
That spaniel'd me at heels, to whom I gave	
That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests	
That stands upon the rolling restless stone-	
That starts i' th' way before thee.	
That state or fortune fall into my keeping	
That stay at home, if bearing carry it;	
That sticks on filthy deeds.	
That stretch their duties nicely.	
That suffer in exposure, let us meet	
That swear'st grace o'erboard, not an oath on shore?	
That tears shall drown the wind. I have no spur	
That tempts most cunningly. But be not tempted.	
That tend upon my father?	
That tends to vice in man but I affirm	
That the Lord Bardolph doth attend him here.	
That the bruised heart was pierced through the ear.	
That the graves, all gaping wide,	
That the great body of our state may go	
That the rude sea grew civil at her song,	
That their good souls may be appeas'd with slaughter	
That therefore only are reputed wise	
That these hot tears, which break from me perforce,	
That they do hold their course toward Tewksbury;	
That they have let the dangerous enemy	
That they may break his foaming courser's back	
That they may fairly note this act of mine!           Exeunt	
That they may have their wages duly paid 'em,	
That thinks with oaths to face the matter out.	
That this fell fault of my accursed sons-	
That this great King may kindly say	
That thou consent to marry us to-day.	
That thou couldst see my wars to-day, and knew'st	
That thou might'st think upon these by the seal,	
That thou shalt like an airy spirit go.	
That thou wilt never render to me more!	
That thou, residing here, goes yet with me,	
That though his actions were not visible, yet	
That thunders, lightens, opens graves, and roars	
That thus he suffers for.	
That time, acquaintance, custom, and condition,	
That to Laertes I forgot myself,	
That turn'd your wit the seamy side without,	
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth	
That very dogs disdain'd; and in this habit	
That want their leader, scatter up and down	
That was his mistress.	
That we have better men. But, hit or miss,	
That we have tried the utmost of our friends,	
That we may arm us to encounter it.	
That we may wake the King? He hath slept long.	
That we meet here so strangely; but her son	
That we must stand and play the murderer in?	
That weigh their pains in sense, and do suppose	
That were a state fit for his holiness.	
That were his lackeys. I cried 'hum,' and 'Well, go to!'	
That were the cause of my imprisonment.	
That what we did was mildly as we might,	
That what you speak is in your conscience wash'd	
That what's else rare is chok'd; and in that point	
That when I am in heaven I shall desire	
That which I owe is lost; but if you please	
That which I would to God I had not seen;	
That which but seems unlike: 'tis not impossible	
That which long process could not arbitrate.	
That wisdom, loyalty, and mere dislike	
That with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood,	
That work for bread upon Athenian stalls,	
That you are fool'd, discarded, and shook off	
That you are odd, and he is even with you.	
That you did fear is done.	
That you did nothing purpose 'gainst the state,	
That you do lie so late?	
That you protect this course, and put it on	
That you stand forfeit, being those that sue?	
That you would have me seek into myself	
That you, his friend, are in; and sends me forth-	
That your poor friends must woo your company?	
That youth and observation copied there,	
That's yet unbruis'd; bring me but out at gate.	
That, Escalus.	
That, being dead, like to the bullet's grazing	
That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,	
That, if it would but apprehend some joy,	
That, like the stately Phoebe 'mongst her nymphs,	
That, notwithstanding thy capacity	
That, when he please again to lie himself,	
That, when she dies, with beauty dies her store.	
The Alps doth spit and void his rheum upon;	
The Archbishop.	
The Cardinal Pandulph is within at rest,	
The Duke is made Protector of the realm;	
The Duke must grant me that. Besides, his picture	
The Duke of Alencon flieth to his side.	
The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on	
The Earl Northumberland and the Lord Bardolph,	
The Earl of Armagnac, near knit to Charles,	
The English camp near Bordeaux	
The French, advis'd by good intelligence	
The Gordian knot of it he will unloose,	
The Goths have gathered head; and with a power	
The Grecian camp. Before the tent of ACHILLES	
The Greeks upon advice did bury Ajax,	
The King doth smile at; and is well prepar'd	
The King has gone beyond me. All my glories	
The King has sent me otherwhere; besides,	
The King shall have my service; but my prayers	
The King was weeping-ripe for a good word.	
The Lady Anne pass from her coronation?	
The Lady speaks again in Welsh.	
The Marquis Dorset, as I hear, is fled	
The Marshal and the Archbishop are strong.	
The Prince draws it out and finds it to he a bottle of sack.	
The Princess Dowager? How goes her business?	
The Princess of this country, and the air on't	
The Queen from France hath brought a puissant power;	
The Queen's closet.	
The Three Witches	
The Tribune and his nephews kneel for grace.	
The Volsces are in arms.	
The act of order to a peopled kingdom.	
The air of paradise did fan the house,	
The articles o' th' combination drew	
The barren, touched in this holy chase,	
The basest weed outbraves his dignity:	
The bawdy wind, that kisses all it meets,	
The beachy girdle of the ocean	
The beauty of her person to the people.	
The beauty of this kingdom, I'll assure you.	
The best condition'd and unwearied spirit	
The best, with whom we may articulate	
The better act of purposes mistook	
The better angel is a man right fair:	
The better part of ours are full of rest.	
The blood of malice in a vein of league,	
The breath of garlic-eaters!	
The breath of heaven hath blown his spirit out,	
The business present; 'tis his Highness' pleasure	
The business we have talk'd of.	
The cable broke, the holding-anchor lost,	
The capon burns, the pig falls from the spit;	
The captainship, thou shalt be met with thanks,	
The charter of thy worth gives thee releasing:	
The cheapest of us is ten groats too dear.	
The choice and master spirits of this age.	
The city is well stor'd.	
The close enacts and counsels of thy heart!	
The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,	
The conquerors can but make a fire of him;	
The consequence is, then, thy jealous fits	
The copy of your speed is learn'd by them,	
The cost that did conclude it.	
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.	
The dangers of the days but newly gone,	
The dark and vicious place where thee he got	
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad.	
The desperate tempest hath so bang'd the Turks,	
The devil their virtue tempts and they tempt heaven.	
The devil to his fellow, and delight	
The dismal'st day is this that e'er I saw,	
The dogs o' th' street to bay me. Every villain	
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.                 [Dies.]	
The due o' th' verdict with it; at what ease	
The eleventh of this month at Shrewsbury.	
The enemies' drum is heard, and fearful scouring	
The enemy comes on in gallant show;	
The envious load that lies upon his heart;	
The eye of majesty.	
The eye of reason may pry in upon us.	
The fairest queen that ever king receiv'd.	
The fairest votary took up that fire,	
The fall of Antony.	
The fall of every Phrygian stone will cost	
The father rashly slaughter'd his own son,	
The fear of that holds off my present aid.	
The fellow has a deal of that too much	
The fellow has good judgment.	
The first my thought, the other my desire,	
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,	
The follower of so poor a gentleman.	
The fore-recited practices, whereof	
The forest	
The forest	
The forest	
The form of my intent. I'll serve this duke:	
The former man may make him. Bring us to him,	
The fortress of it; for better might we	
The fortunes and affairs of noble Brutus	
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,	
The frame and huge foundation of the earth	
The fraud of men was ever so,	
The freezing hours away? We have seen nothing;	
The gates of Rome. Our spoils we have brought home	
The gay new coats o'er the French soldiers' heads	
The general suit of Rome; never admitted	
The gentle Archbishop of York is up	
The gentry to this business. He creates	
The goodness of the night upon you, friends!	
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead	
The guard, ho! O, dispatch me!	
The gunner, and his mate,	
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,	
The head is not more native to the heart,	
The heart of Antony, Octavia is	
The high imperial type of this earth's glory.	
The honourable blood of Lancaster,	
The hope of Rome; for so he bid me say;	
The hope of comfort. But for thee, fellow,	
The horned herd! For I have savage cause,	
The housekeeper, the hunter, every one	
The hue of dungeons, and the school of night;	
The image of a wicked heinous fault	
The innocent mansion of my love, my heart.	
The juice of it on sleeping eyelids laid	
The king was slily finger'd from the deck!	
The knee before him, and returns in peace	
The lass I spoke of.	
The late request that you did sound me in.	
The liberal and kind offer of the King.	
The like is on her arm.	
The lips of those that breathe them in the air.	
The lives of those that he did lead to fight	
The love of wicked men converts to fear;	
The manner of his speech; for't cannot be	
The manner of their taking may appear	
The manner of thy vile outrageous crimes,	
The mart	
The means that makes us strangers!	
The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand	
The meat is cold because you come not home,	
The meat was well, if you were so contented.	
The merciful construction of good women;	
The merry songs of peace to all his neighbours.	
The mightiest space in fortune nature brings	
The mirror of all courtesy-	
The mirth whereof so larded with my matter	
The mistress which I serve quickens what's dead,	
The model of our chaste loves, his young daughter-	
The moon into salt tears; the earth's a thief,	
The mortal worm might make the sleep eternal.	
The most you sought was her promotion,	
The motions of his spirit are dull:as night,	
The multitudinous seas incarnadine,	
The napless vesture of humility;	
The native act and figure of my heart	
The natural bravery of your isle, which stands	
The need we have to use you did provoke	
The needful bits and curbs to headstrong steeds,	
The night before there was no purpose in them	
The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,	
The noble Duke of Bedford, late deceas'd,	
The noble Westmoreland and warlike Blunt,	
The noble change that I have purposed!	
The noise of battle hurtled in the air,	
The ocean swells not so as Aaron storms.	
The one almost as infinite as all,	
The one as long as the other. 'Tis pity of him.	
The one ne'er got me credit, the other mickle blame.	
The one part suffered, the other will I do.	
The ornament of beauty is suspect,	
The ostentation of our love, which left unshown	
The other Edward dead, to quit my Edward;	
The other way's a Mars.                         [To MARDIAN]	
The other, that he do record a gift,	
The palace	
The park	
The patterns that by God and by French fathers	
The peers agreed; and Henry was well pleas'd	
The people mutinous; and it is rumour'd,	
The perfume and suppliance of a minute;	
The place is dignified by the doer's deed;	
The pleasing punishment that women bear,	
The pow'r that I have on you is to spare you;	
The precedent was full as long a-doing;	
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;	
The pride of kingly sway from out my heart;	
The prison	
The quiet of my wounded conscience,	
The rage be his, whilst on the earth I rain	
The rascal people, thirsting after prey,	
The rather for I earnestly beseech,	
The raven himself is hoarse	
The readiest way to make the wench amends	
The reason mov'd these warlike lords to this	
The reasons of our state I cannot yield,	
The reasons you allege do more conduce	
The residence of Posthumus; so nigh, at least,	
The rest that love me, rise and follow me.	
The rich advantage of good exercise?	
The rites for which I love him are bereft me,	
The robb'd that smiles steals something from the thief;	
The rogues slighted me into the river with as little remorse	
The sad account of fore-bemoaned moan,	
The saddest spectacle that e'er I view'd.	
The saddler had it, sir; I kept it not.	
The sands are numb'red that make up my life;	
The scarfed bark puts from her native bay,	
The sceptre, learning, physic, must	
The sea-coast	
The senator shall bear contempt hereditary,	
The several caskets to this noble Prince.	
The severals and unhidden passages	
The shes of Italy should not betray	
The shot of accident nor dart of chance	
The sight of any of the house of York	
The sister to my wife, this gentlewoman,	
The slave of nature and the son of hell,	
The slave, a member of the country's peace,	
The smallest worm will turn, being trodden on,	
The soul and body rive not more in parting	
The spacious world cannot again afford;	
The speediness of your return.	
The spinsters and the knitters in the sun,	
The stairs, as he treads on them, kiss his feet.	
The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You	
The story of that baleful burning night,	
The street in Windsor	
The strength o' th' enemy.	
The strongest nerves and small inferior veins	
The sudden breach on't.	
The sug'red game before thee. But myself,	
The sun of Rome is set! Our day is gone;	
The sun's a thief, and with his great attraction	
The supposition of the lady's death	
The sword, the mace, the crown imperial,	
The taste whereof God of his mercy give	
The tender leaves of hopes; to-morrow blossoms	
The thief doth fear each bush an officer.	
The thieves are scattered, and possess'd with fear	
The thing I am by seeming otherwise.	
The thrifty hire I sav'd under your father,	
The throne he sits on, nor the tide of pomp	
The throned monarch better than his crown;	
The trumpet sounds; be copious in exclaims.	
The trumpets sound. Enter BOLINGBROKE, Duke of Hereford,	
The truth on our side.	
The tutor and the feeder of my riots.	
The unity and married calm of states	
The vasty fields of France? Or may we cram	
The venison first shall be the lord o' th' feast;	
The venom clamours of a jealous woman	
The very lifeblood of our enterprise.	
The violence of either thee becomes,	
The violets, cowslips, and the primroses,	
The virtue of his will; but you must fear,	
The voice again; or, like a gate of steel	
The vow is made. Come, brother, take a head,	
The warlike service he has done, consider; think	
The washing of ten tides!	
The water of my land, find her disease	
The weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter,	
The wheel is come full circle; I am here.	
The which he could not levy; whereupon	
The which he promised. Do but encave yourself	
The white cold virgin snow upon my heart	
The whole world shall not save him.	
The willing'st sin I ever yet committed	
The wine peep through their scars. Come on, my queen,	
The wish would make else an unquiet house.	
The word is short, but not so short as sweet;	
The words would add more anguish than the wounds.	
The youthful Phoebus.	
Thee I'll chase hence, thou wolf in sheep's array.	
Thee will I love, and with thee lead my life;	
Their heavy burdens at his narrow gate,	
Their minds may change. Besides, it were a mock	
Their powers are marching unto Paris-ward.	
Their proud contempt that beats His peace to heaven!	
Their saucy sweetness that do coin heaven's image	
Their savage eyes turn'd to a modest gaze	
Their several kinds have done. My high charms work,	
Their softest touch as smart as lizards' stings!	
Their touch affrights me as a serpent's sting.	
Theirs for the earth's increase, mine for my sorrows?	
Then be thou jocund. Ere the bat hath flown	
Then check'd and rated by Northumberland,	
Then enter SATURNINUS, TAMORA, BASSIANUS LAVINIA,	
Then everything includes itself in power,	
Then how or which way should they first break in?	
Then imitate the action of the tiger:	
Then in the blazon of sweet beauty's best,	
Then lays his finger on his temple; straight	
Then lend the eye a terrible aspect;	
Then let them use us well; else let them know,	
Then let us meet them like necessities;	
Then none but I shall turn his jest to sorrow.	
Then spare not the old father. Mighty sir,	
Then stir Demetrius up with bitter wrong;	
Then take thine auld cloak about thee."	
Then take we down his load and turn him off,	
Then talk no more of flight, it is no boot;	
Then tell me, if I get your daughter's love,	
Then thou whose shadow shadows doth make bright	
Then with directions to repair to Ravenspurgh.	
Then, as in grateful virtue I am bound	
Then, dear my liege, mine honour let me try;	
Then, good my liege, mistake me not so much	
Thence to be wrench'd with an unlineal hand,	
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,	
There be fools alive iwis	
There dwelt a man in Babylon,	
There is a prohibition so divine	
There is a slave, whom we have put in prison,	
There is no answer made.	
There is not so much left to furnish out	
There is the play-house now, there must you sit,	
There lives more life in one of your fair eyes,	
There must we bring him; and myself have play'd	
There serve your lust, shadowed from heaven's eye,	
There speak and strike, brave boys, and take your turns;	
There were no suns to borrow of.	
There were two honours lost, yours and your son's.	
There will we dine. This woman that I mean,	
There without ransom to lie forfeited;	
There's a great spirit gone! Thus did I desire it.	
There's another.	
There's mine! beg another of thy daughters.	
There's mischief in this man. Canst thou say further?	
There's my purse; I am yet thy debtor. Boy, go along with	
There's not a hollow cave or lurking-place,	
There's places of rebuke. He was a fool,	
There's yet one good in ten.'	
There, where we see the lights.	
Therefore 'tis meet Achilles meet not Hector.	
Therefore I lie with her, and she with me,	
Therefore I part with him; and part with him	
Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy.	
Therefore fasten your ear on my advisings; to the love I have in	
Therefore thy later vows against thy first	
Therefore we banish you our territories.	
Therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends,	
Therefore, when merchant-like I sell revenge,	
Thereon dependent, for your brother's life-	
These English woes shall make me smile in France.	
These are the limbs o' th' plot; no more, I hope.	
These bloody accidents must excuse my manners,	
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.	
These drums! these trumpets, flutes! what!	
These few days' wonder will be quickly worn.	
These flags of France, that are advanced here	
These hairs which thou dost ravish from my chin	
These lords are visited; you are not free,	
These tears are my sweet Rutland's obsequies;	
These that I bring unto their latest home,	
These women are shrewd tempters with their tongues.	
These words hereafter thy tormentors be!	
These worms for loving, that art most in love?	
They are a sweet society of fair ones.	
They are as children but one step below,	
They are in readiness.	
They are the books, the arts, the academes,	
They be alone.	
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way	
They clap the lubber Ajax on the shoulder,	
They could not speak; and so I left them both,	
They dare not show their husbands; their best conscience	
They gave us our demands.' Thus we debase	
They hail'd him father to a line of kings.	
They have all been touch'd and found base metal, for	
They have chose a consul that will from them take	
They make in Italy; the borders maritime	
They pray; grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.	
They say he parted well and paid his score,	
They say, in care of your most royal person,	
They set the same; and there it doth remain,	
They shall be fam'd; for there the sun shall greet them	
They told me, here, at dead time of the night,	
They would not, could not do't. 'Tis worse than murther	
They'll pardon it.- Say you, sir?	
Thine being but a moiety of my moan-	
Thine eye begins to speak, set thy tongue there;	
Thine, by yea and no- which is as much as to say as	
Things at the worst will cease or else climb upward	
Think you 'twere prejudicial to his crown?	
Think you, but that I know our state secure,	
Thinking his prattle to be tedious;	
This Cressida in Troy? Had she no lover there	
This King of Naples, being an enemy	
This act is as an ancient tale new told	
This by Calpurnia's dream is signified.	
This calf, bred from his cow, from all the world;	
This candle burns not clear. 'Tis I must snuff it;	
This chaos, when degree is suffocate,	
This cursed injury.	
This dangerous conception in this point:	
This day I breathed first: time is come round,	
This deadly blot in thy digressing son.	
This done, see that you take no longer days,	
This grave shall have a living monument.	
This hand hath made him proud with clapping him.	
This hand was made to handle nought but gold.	
This honourable bounty shall belong.	
This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man's funeral;	
This is an accident of hourly proof,	
This is not hunters' language. He that strikes	
This is the cause that I, poor Margaret,	
This is the feast that I have bid her to,	
This is the letter he spoke of, which approves him an	
This is the state of man: to-day he puts forth	
This is the tragic tale of Philomel	
This is to horse. Adieu, noble Agrippa.	
This minion stood upon her chastity,	
This morning, like the spirit of a youth	
This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch,	
This only is the witchcraft I have used.	
This paper has undone me. 'Tis th' account	
This peroration with such circumstance?	
This proveth Edward's love and Warwick's honesty.	
This quarrel would excite? Yet, I protest,	
This seeming brow of justice, did he win	
This seen, Orlando did approach the man,	
This service is not service so being done,	
This shall ye do, so help you righteous God!	
This sickly land might solace as before.	
This sudden execution of my will.	
This to my lord the King.	
This tongue had not offended so today,	
This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head	
This tribute from us, we were free. Caesar's ambition-	
This unhair'd sauciness and boyish troops,	
This very night at one another's heels;	
This was her first remembrance from the Moor.	
This was my wish: 'Be thou' quoth I 'accurs'd	
This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly.	
This wicked Emperor may have shipp'd her hence;	
This wimpled, whining, purblind, wayward boy,	
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange	
This, I presume, will wake him.                            Exeunt	
Thisby dear, and lady dear!'	
Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen;	
Thorough the hazards of this untrod state	
Those enemies of Timon's and mine own,	
Those many had not dar'd to do that evil	
Those waters from me which I would have stopp'd;	
Those we profess, peace-makers, friends, and servants.	
Those, for their parents were exceeding poor,	
Thou art no soldier.	
Thou art not by mine eye, Lysander, found;	
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.	
Thou art too gentle and too free a man.	
Thou art uprous'd with some distemp'rature;	
Thou by thy dial's shady stealth mayst know,	
Thou cam'st here to complain.	
Thou canst not hit it, hit it, hit it,	
Thou damned and luxurious mountain-goat,	
Thou didst prevent me; I had peopl'd else	
Thou diest within this hour.	
Thou divine Imogen, what thou endur'st,	
Thou dost confirm his happiness for ever.	
Thou dost so crown with gold! This blows my heart.	
Thou elvish-mark'd, abortive, rooting hog,	
Thou great defender of this Capitol,	
Thou hast by moonlight at her window sung,	
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes	
Thou hast one son; for his sake pity me,	
Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.	
Thou hast robb'd me of this deed. I would revenges,	
Thou hast said well; for some of you there present	
Thou hast seal'd up my expectation.	
Thou hast stol'n that which, after some few hours,	
Thou know'st not what; but take it for thy labour.	
Thou know'st we work by wit and not by witchcraft,	
Thou know'st, the first time that we smell the air	
Thou mayst not wander in that labyrinth:	
Thou mayst prove false. At lovers' perjuries,	
Thou must be made immortal. Where's Barnardine?	
Thou must be patient. We came crying hither;	
Thou never shalt hear herald any more.                  Exit	
Thou odoriferous stench! sound rottenness!	
Thou rag of honour, thou detested-	
Thou say'st the King grows mad: I'll tell thee, friend,	
Thou seek'st the greatness that will overwhelm thee.	
Thou seest the heavens, as troubled with man's act,	
Thou shalt not damn my hand.	
Thou shouldst be colour'd thus. You married ones,	
Thou strok'st me and made much of me, wouldst give me	
Thou that threw'st dust upon his goodly head,	
Thou then look'dst like a villain; now, methinks,	
Thou usurer that put'st forth all to use,	
Thou wilt be throng'd to shortly.	
Thou wilt not utter what thou dost not know,	
Thou wouldst not have mourn'd so much for me.	
Thou wrong'st a gentleman who is as far	
Thou yard, three-quarters, half-yard, quarter, nail,	
Thou, nor thy nobles, to the crown of England.	
Though I lost twenty lives. Help! help, ho! help!	
Though Marcius earn'd them not; and all his faults	
Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable.	
Though all that I can do is nothing worth,	
Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down,	
Though fools at home condemn 'em.	
Though he be merry, yet withal he's honest.	
Though heaven cannot. O Romeo, Romeo!	
Though his bark cannot be lost,	
Though inclination be as sharp as will.	
Though less than yours in past, must o'ertop yours;	
Though rebels wound thee with their horses' hoofs.	
Though so denied fair harbour in my house.	
Though some of you, with Pilate, wash your hands,	
Though thanks to all, must I select from all; the rest	
Though that my death were adjunct to my act,	
Though thou repent, yet I have still the loss,	
Though yet heaven knows it is but as a tomb	
Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word	
Three themes in one, which wondrous scope affords.	
Three-pil'd hyperboles, spruce affectation,	
Thrice hath this Hotspur, Mars in swathling clothes,	
Through Alexandria make a jolly march;	
Through Athens' gates have we devis'd to steal.	
Through Gloucestershire; by which account,	
Through a strait lane- the enemy, full-hearted,	
Through all the kingdoms that acknowledge Christ.	
Through bog, through bush, through brake, through brier;	
Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;	
Through which our policy must make a breach.	
Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her,	
Thus Kent, O princes, bids you all adieu;	
Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.	
Thus did I keep my person fresh and new,	
Thus did he strangle serpents in his manus.	
Thus give I mine, and thus take I thy heart.	
Thus might he pass indeed. Yet he revives.	
Thus purifies itself and turns to grace.	
Thus runs the world away.	
Thus smiling, as some fly had tickled slumber,	
Thus stands the case: you know our King, my brother,	
Thus with my hat, and sigh, and say amen,	
Thy George, profan'd, hath lost his lordly honour;	
Thy beauty that doth make me like thee well,	
Thy bosom is endeared with all hearts,	
Thy brother Marcus tenders on thy lips.	
Thy dangerous stoutness; for I mock at death	
Thy dow'rless daughter, King, thrown to my chance,	
Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind Prince,	
Thy glass will show thee how thy beauties wear,	
Thy half o' th' kingdom hast thou not forgot,	
Thy honour, state, and seat, is due to me.	
Thy husband is thy lord, thy life, thy keeper,	
Thy ignominy sleep with thee in the grave,	
Thy lips, that kiss'd the Queen, shall sweep the ground;	
Thy love is better than high birth to me,	
Thy lovers withering, as thy sweet self grow'st.	
Thy mantle good,	
Thy medicine on my lips, and let this kiss	
Thy mother gave thee when thou suck'dst her breast	
Thy mother's name is ominous to children.	
Thy nature did commence in sufferance; time	
Thy nephew and right royal sovereign.	
Thy nephews' souls bid thee despair and die.	
Thy plainness moves me more than eloquence,	
Thy self thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel:	
Thy sins are visited in this poor child;	
Thy sly conveyance and thy lord's false love;	
Thy state of law is bondslave to the law;	
Thy very stones prate of my whereabout,	
Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs, so far	
Tied it by letters-patents. Now, who'll take it?	
Till Holy Church incorporate two in one.	
Till I do challenge it. Give him the crowns;	
Till I were couching with the doctor's clerk.	
Till Katherine the curst have got a husband.	
Till Lionel's issue fails, his should not reign.	
Till Paris was besieg'd, famish'd, and lost.	
Till Saturninus be Rome's Emperor.	
Till by broad spreading it disperse to nought.	
Till by degrees the memory of my womb,	
Till he be dieted to my request,	
Till he disbursed, at Saint Colme's Inch,	
Till honour be bought up, and no sword worn	
Till in her ashes she lie buried.	
Till my attempt so much be glorified	
Till nature as she wrought thee fell a-doting,	
Till now infixed I beheld myself	
Till now some nine moons wasted, they have used	
Till she had laid it and conjur'd it down.	
Till that the nature of your fault be known	
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature	
Till then, adieu, and keep this holy kiss.             Exit.	
Till they obey the manage. If we suffer,	
Till this advantage, this vile-drawing bias,	
Till thou applaud the deed. Come, seeling night,	
Till thou art here aloft, or I below.	
Till time and vantage crave my company.               Exeunt	
Till we can clear these ambiguities	
Till we had his assistance by the hand;	
Till with thy warlike sword, despite of fate,	
Till your strong hand shall help to give him strength	
Till youth take leave and leave you to the crutch.	
Time doth transfix the flourish set on youth,	
Time's thievish progress to eternity.	
Timon has been this lord's father,	
Timon.	
To England send him; or confine him where	
To Harry Monmouth, whose swift wrath beat down	
To Julius Caesar's ill-erected tower,	
To Master Brook you yet shall hold your word;	
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,	
To Scotland; and concludes in hearty prayers	
To Tenedos they come,	
To Thee I do commend my watchful soul	
To all the rout, then hold me dangerous.	
To angle for your thoughts; but you are wise-	
To answer all the city.	
To answer this your charge?	
To any in this presence, I desire	
To banish your defenders, till at length	
To be adjudg'd some direful slaught'ring death,	
To be entangled with those mouth-made vows,	
To be exalted with the threatening clouds,	
To be exil'd and thrown	
To be sent after me.	
To be so flouted in this royal presence?	
To be so good to Caesar as to hear me,	
To be so pest'red with a popingay,	
To be thus is nothing,	
To be thy lord and master. Seek the King;	
To bear this tidings to the bloody King.	
To beat assailing death from his weak legions;	
To bed, to bed, to bed.	
To bitterest enmity; so fellest foes,	
To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,	
To break it with a fearful dream of him,	
To breakfast once forth of my company.	
To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear,	
To buy his favour, I extend this friendship;	
To call for recompense. Appear it to your mind	
To call his fortunes thine.	
To call together all his state of war;	
To carry into Flanders the great seal.	
To change a master. O, my fortunes have	
To change the cod's head for the salmon's tail;	
To check his reign but they will cherish it;	
To clap this royal bargain up of peace,	
To come with him along.	
To comfort thee, though thou art banished.	
To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes	
To cry 'Good joy.' Good joy, my lord and lady!	
To cry, "Hold, hold!"	
To death or to dishonour, and my end	
To deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds.	
To desperate adventures and assur'd destruction.	
To dinner presently.	
To do him wrong, or any way impeach	
To do you justice, make their ministers	
To do you salutation from his master.	
To drink to these fair ladies, and a measure	
To drown me in thy sister's flood of tears.	
To each word a warbling note;	
To eke it, and to draw it out in length,	
To enter human hearing, from Argier	
To every several man, seventy-five drachmas.	
To every varied object in his glance;	
To execute the noble Duke at Calais.	
To execution and the hand of death.	
To expel him thence. I think he'll be to Rome	
To fall and blast her pride!	
To feast so great a warrior in my house.              Exeunt	
To fill the world with vicious qualities.	
To find out practices of cunning hell	
To free us from his Father's wrathful curse,	
To fright them ere destroy. But come in;	
To get his place, and to plume up my will	
To give it her. I did so, and take heed on't;	
To give me now a little benefit	
To give me secret harbour hath a purpose	
To give the heir and daughter of Lord Scales	
To give thee answer of thy just demand.	
To give you over at this first encounter,	
To grapple with the house of Lancaster;	
To have a godly peace concluded of	
To have a thankless child! Away, away!                Exit.	
To have begg'd or bought what I have took. Good troth,	
To have mistrusted her; yet, O my daughter!	
To have my pardon, trim it handsomely.	
To have thee crown'd withal.	
To have well-armed friends.	
To heaven.	
To help thee curse this poisonous bunch-back'd toad.	
To her whose state is such that cannot choose	
To hide your doings and to silence that	
To high promotions and great dignity.	
To hold our safety up. I sent your Grace	
To instruct her fully in those sciences,	
To keep base life afoot. Return with her?	
To keep the oath that we administer:	
To keep those many many bodies safe	
To know from whence we are.	
To know the thing I am forbid to know,	
To know what willing ransom he will give.	
To lay down likelihoods and forms of hope.	
To lay my crown at 's feet, and there to kneel.	
To leave a rich Jew's service to become	
To leave that latest which concerns him first,	
To leave the city and commit yourself	
To leave the figure, or disfigure it.	
To let an arrogant piece of flesh threat us,	
To let him live. Where he arrives he moves	
To let this canker of our nature come	
To lie discolour'd by this place of peace? [Enters the tomb.]	
To look upon him, till the diminution	
To look upon the hideous god of war	
To look upon the holy sun, to have	
To lose't or give't away were such perdition	
To make William Lord Hastings of our mind,	
To make a seemly answer to such persons.	
To make conditions.	
To make it gracious. For my private part,	
To make oppression bitter, or ere this	
To make perfumes? distil? preserve? yea, so	
To make the dear loss, have I means much weaker	
To make the service greater than the god-I	
To make your house our Tow'r. You a brother of us,	
To make your vessel nimble.	
To meet her new beloved anywhere;	
To men that understand you, words and weakness.	
To mitigate the scorn he gives his uncle	
To my determin'd time thou gav'st new date.	
To my revenge. But in my terms of honour	
To new-found methods, and to compounds strange?	
To one above itself. Each following day	
To one consent, may work contrariously;	
To other friends; and so farewell, Sir Michael.	
To our confusion.	
To our gross selves? Good, good my lord, bethink you.	
To overgo thy woes and drown thy cries?	
To part the Queen's proud kindred from the Prince.	
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.	
To play the broker in mine own behalf;	
To pluck down justice from your awful bench,	
To point his slow unmoving finger at!	
To praise him more than ever man did merit.	
To pray for her? What, is she crying out?	
To press before thy father to a grave?	
To prison with her! Shall we thus permit	
To prove, by God's grace and my body's valour,	
To pry into the secrets of the state;	
To punish me for what you make me do	
To punish my mistreadings. Tell me else,	
To raise a present sum; therefore go forth,	
To rank our chosen truth with such a show	
To reconcile you all unto the King.                   Exeunt	
To render them redoubted. Look on beauty	
To rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave.	
To royalty unlearn'd, honour untaught,	
To save your subjects from such massacre	
To say 'Beseech you, cease.' You have made fair hands,	
To say there is no vice but beggary.	
To see great Pompey pass the streets of Rome.	
To see if any mean to shrink from me.                 Exeunt	
To see perform'd the tenour of our word.	
To see some mischief on him. O!                     He dies.	
To serve and to deserve my mistress' grace;	
To show less sovereignty than they, must needs	
To sin's rebuke and my Creator's praise.	
To sit here at this present, and behold	
To slay his daughter with his own right hand,	
To smooth the ice, or add another hue	
To sort our nobles from our common men;	
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man	
To speak your bosom freely.	
To spend upon his haters. If thou please	
To start my quiet.	
To stay you from election.	
To stormy passion, must perforce decay.	
To such a person, and in such a place,	
To sue to live, I find I seek to die;	
To sunder his that was thine enemy?	
To swear against the truth so foul a be.	
To swear against you? Such things have been done.	
To sweep the dust behind the door.	
To talk with him, and to behold his visage,	
To tear the Garter from thy craven's leg,  [Plucking it off]	
To tell sad stories of my own mishaps.	
To tell you what I was, since my conversion	
To th' ensuing age abhorr'd.' Speak to me, son.	
To th' fire i' th' blood. Be more abstemious,	
To the King's party there's no going. Newness	
To the King's ship, invisible as thou art;	
To the Prince and his book-mates.	
To the court of his eye, peeping thorough desire.	
To the good Queen, possess'd him with a scruple	
To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast	
To the winding of horns, enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA,	
To the yet unbegotten sin of times,	
To their subsequent volumes, there is seen	
To thine own lips again.	
To think but nobly of my grandmother:	
To think my poverty is treacherous.	
To this I witness call the fools of time,	
To this detested groom.                 [Points at Oswald.]	
To this good purpose, that so fairly shows,	
To this last costly treaty, th' interview	
To throw a perfume on the violet,	
To throw away the dearest thing he owed	
To thy sweet will making addition thus.	
To torture thee the more, being what thou art.	
To tread a measure with her on this grass.	
To tread down fair respect of sovereignty,	
To trouble and disturb the King and us?	
To try if that our own be ours or no.	
To try the vigour of them, and apply	
To try your taking of a false report, which hath	
To underprop this action? Is 't not I	
To understand my purposes aright.	
To undeservers.	
To unstable slightness. Purpose so barr'd, it follows	
To use as you think needful of the man.	
To use it for my time. I am a brother	
To view th' artillery and munition;	
To wake and wage a danger profitless.	
To walk this way. I never do him wrong	
To wall thee from the liberty of flight,	
To wear our moral state to come with her,	
To whisper. At the which let no man wonder.	
To whom 'tis instant due. Nev'r speak or think	
To whom the foragers shall all repair,	
To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,	
To wilful disobedience, and rebel!	
To wish myself much better, yet for you	
To wit, besides commends and courteous breath,	
To woo your lady. [Aside] Yet, a barful strife!	
To work exceeding miracles on earth.	
To work my mind, when body's work's expired.	
To wreak the love I bore my cousin Tybalt	
To you they have show'd some truth.	
To your most gracious hands, that are the substance	
To your proceedings; yet, believe me, Prince,	
To-morrow morning come you to my house,	
To-morrow night look that thou lie alone;	
To-morrow to th' field. Flourish.                     Exeunt	
To-night I take my leave. This naughty man	
To-night at Heme's oak, just 'twixt twelve and one,	
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,	
Together with remembrance of ourselves.	
Together with that fair and warlike form	
Tongues spit their duties out, and cold hearts freeze	
Too hideous to be shown. Thou dost mean something.	
Too much the rein; the strongest oaths are straw	
Too nice, and yet too true!	
Too wide for Neptune's hips; how chances mock,	
Took once a pliant hour, and found good means	
Touch their effects in this. Thyself art coming	
Touches his friend, which craves to be rememb'red	
Touching her flight.                   [Presenting a letter]	
Touching that point.	
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.	
Toward the King first, then his laws, in filling	
Towards York shall bend you with your dearest speed	
Towards fronting peril and oppos'd decay!	
Tower.	
Traduc'd for levity; and 'tis said in Rome	
Tranio is chang'd into Lucentio.	
Translates his rivals.	
Transported shall be at high festivals	
Trebles thee o'er.	
Trebonius, Cinna, Antony, Lepidus, Popilius, Publius, and others.	
Trembling even at the name of Mortimer.	
Troilus.	
Trojan and Greek Soldiers, and Attendants	
Troy and the Greek camp before it	
Troy in our weakness stands, not in her strength.	
Troy, whosoever, and a proper man of person. When comes Troilus?	
Troy. A street	
Troy. Before PRIAM'S palace	
Troy. PRIAM'S palace	
Truly, however else.	
Trust me, I take him for the better dog.	
Trust to't. Bethink you. I'll not be forsworn.         Exit.	
Try many, all good; serve truly; never	
Try what my credit can in Venice do;	
Tu-whit, Tu-who'- A merry note,	
Tucket within.	
Turn all to serpents! Call the slave again.	
Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.	
Turn thee Benvolio! look upon thy death.	
Turning his face to the dew-dropping South.	
Turns to the sourest and most deadly hate.	
Tush! tush! fear boys with bugs.	
Tut, I have done a thousand dreadful things	
Two kinsmen digg'd their graves with weeping eyes.	
Two mighty eagles fell, and there they perch'd,	
Tyb. Patience perforce with wilful choler meeting	
Tyb. Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.	
ULYSSES. Achilles stands i' th' entrance of his tent.	
ULYSSES. I cannot conjure, Troyan.	
ULYSSES. I wonder now how yonder city stands,	
ULYSSES. The elephant hath joints, but none for courtesy; his legs	
ULYSSES. This 'tis:	
ULYSSES. We saw him at the opening of his tent.	
Uncase thee; take my colour'd hat and cloak.	
Under some biting error.	
Under the blow of thralled discontent,	
Under the veil of wildness; which, no doubt,	
Under the which he shall not choose but fall;	
Under these windows white and azure, lac'd	
Under whose government come they along?	
Uneven is the course; I like it not.	
Unfold the imagin'd happiness that both	
Ungovern'd youth, to wail it in their age;	
Unless he do profane, steal, or usurp.	
Unless he seek to thrust you out perforce.	
Unless my sins abuse my divination,	
Unless she do it under this excuse,	
Unless the Lady Bona quit his pain.	
Unless the adage must be verified,	
Unless the deed go with it. From this moment	
Unless thou take that honour from thy name:	
Unless to spy my shadow in the sun	
Unless we sweep 'em from the door with cannons,	
Unpeg the basket on the house's top,	
Unquiet meals make ill digestions;	
Unregist'red in vulgar fame, you have	
Unshout the noise that banish'd Marcius,	
Until I see the ring.	
Until four hundred one and twenty years	
Unto Bianca, fair and virtuous.	
Unto a woman, happy but for me,	
Unto that element; but long it could not be	
Unto the frowning judge, or who pronounc'd	
Unto the judge that begg'd it, and indeed	
Unto the voice and yielding of that body	
Unto their lords, by them accomplished;	
Unto their losses twenty thousand crowns;	
Unto this king of smiles, this Bolingbroke-	
Unwillingly to school. And then the lover,	
Up, Princes, and, with spirit of honour edged	
Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.	
Upon a friend of mine, who in hot blood	
Upon a valiant race thy harsh	
Upon her skinny lips. You should be women,	
Upon her wit doth earthly honour wait,	
Upon himself.                       Exeunt all but ENOBARBUS	
Upon his bad life to make all this good,	
Upon his neck a mole, a sanguine star;	
Upon his son; who, high in name and power,	
Upon my life, she finds, although I cannot,	
Upon our honours?	
Upon our kingdom. If, on the tenth day following,	
Upon our soldiers, we will retire to Calais.	
Upon th' enraged soldiers in their spoil,	
Upon the country where you make abode;	
Upon the foot of motion.	
Upon the giddy footing of the hatches,	
Upon the heavy middle of the night	
Upon the innocent and aweless throne.	
Upon the north side of this pleasant chase;	
Upon the place beneath. It is twice blest:	
Upon the wounds his body bears, which show	
Upon this business my appearance make	
Upon those boughs which shake against the cold,	
Urs. But are you sure	
Urs. I pray you be not angry with me, madam,	
Us'd intercession to obtain a league,	
Use our commission in his utmost force.	
Use power with power, and slay me not by art,	
Usurping ivy, brier, or idle moss;	
Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath	
VALERIA. How do you both? You are manifest housekeepers. What are	
VALERIA. My ladies both, good day to you.	
VARRO'S SERVANT. 'Twas due on forfeiture, my lord, six weeks and	
VARRO'S SERVANT. Aside, aside; here comes Lord Timon.	
VARRO. CLAUDIO. It shall be done, my lord.             Exeunt.	
VARRO. My lord?	
VARRO. No, my lord, I saw nothing.	
VAUGHAN. You live that shall cry woe for this hereafter.	
VINCENTIO. 'Tis a good hearing when children are toward.	
VIOLA. A blank, my lord. She never told her love,	
VIOLA. After him I love	
VIOLA. And he is yours, and his must needs be yours:	
VIOLA. By innocence I swear, and by my youth,	
VIOLA. He did me kindness, sir; drew on my side;	
VIOLA. Here comes the man, sir, that did rescue me.	
VIOLA. I beseech you, what manner of man is he?	
VIOLA. I think not so, my lord.	
VIOLA. Most sweet lady-	
VIOLA. The honourable lady of the house, which is she?	
VIOLENTA, and MARIANA, with other CITIZENS	
VIRGILIA. 'Tis not to save labour, nor that I want love.	
VIRGILIA. Indeed, madam?	
VIRGILIA. No, at a word, madam; indeed I must not. I wish you much	
VIRGILIA. No, good madam; I will not out of doors.	
VOLSCE. It is so, sir. Truly, I have forgot you.	
VOLUMNIA. Bastards and all.	
VOLUMNIA. Moe noble blows than ever thou wise words;	
VOLUMNIA. Nay, go not from us thus.	
VOLUMNIA. Take my prayers with you.	
Values itself so highly that to her	
Venice, and PORTIA'S house at Belmont	
Venice. A street	
Verbatim to rehearse the method of my pen.	
Very obedient. Proceed you in your tears.	
Vincentio, come of the Bentivolii;	
Virtue and that part of philosophy	
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-	
Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.	
Vow, alack, for youth unmeet,	
Vows are but breath, and breath a vapour is;	
WART. Here, sir.	
WARWICK. 'Twas not your valour, Clifford, drove me thence.	
WARWICK. An uproar, I dare warrant,	
WARWICK. And I'll keep London with my soldiers.	
WARWICK. Ay, but the case is alter'd.	
WARWICK. Ay, therein Clarence shall not want his part.	
WARWICK. Come hither, gracious sovereign, view this body.	
WARWICK. Come, Clarence, come. Thou wilt if Warwick call.	
WARWICK. Graceless, wilt thou deny thy parentage?	
WARWICK. How now! what news?	
WARWICK. It is reported, mighty sovereign,	
WARWICK. King Lewis, I here protest in sight of heaven,	
WARWICK. Less noise! less noise!	
WARWICK. Many good morrows to your Majesty!	
WARWICK. My gracious lord, you look beyond him quite.	
WARWICK. No longer Earl of March, but Duke of York;	
WARWICK. Now, by my father's badge, old Nevil's crest,	
WARWICK. Sweet York, begin; and if thy claim be good,	
WARWICK. That shall I do, my liege. Stay, Salisbury,	
WARWICK. This door is open; he is gone this way.	
WARWICK. This is his tent; and see where stand his guard.	
WARWICK. Warwick may live to be the best of all.	
WARWICK. Why should you sigh, my lord?	
WARWICK. Why, then, though loath, yet must I be content.	
WARWICK. Yield, my Lord Protector; yield, Winchester;	
WARWICK. [To BONA] And, gracious madam, in our king's behalf,	
WESTMORELAND. Base, fearful, and despairing Henry!	
WESTMORELAND. Mowbray. you overween to take it so.	
WESTMORELAND. Plantagenet, of thee, and these thy sons,	
WESTMORELAND. That is intended in the general's name.	
WESTMORELAND. The king hath granted every article:	
WESTMORELAND. The leaders, having charge from you to stand,	
WESTMORELAND. This will I show the general. Please you, lords,	
WESTMORELAND. You speak, Lord Mowbray, now you know not what.	
WHITMORE. And so am I: my name is Walter Whitmore.	
WIDOW. I should believe you;	
WIFE. His wife, an't like your worship.	
WILLIAM. A pebble.	
WILLIAM. Faith, sir, so so.	
WILLIAMS,    "    "   "    "     "	
WILLIAMS. Ay, he said so, to make us fight cheerfully; but when our	
WILLIAMS. My liege, this was my glove: here is the fellow of it;	
WILLIAMS. Sir, know you this glove?	
WILLIAMS. We see yonder the beginning of the day, but I think we	
WINCHESTER. How now, ambitious Humphry! What means	
WINCHESTER. I do, thou most usurping proditor,	
WOLSEY. And for me,	
WOLSEY. Heav'n's peace be with him!	
WOLSEY. If your Grace	
WOLSEY. Madam, this is a mere distraction;	
WOLSEY. My sovereign, I confess your royal graces,	
WOLSEY. Noble lady,	
WOLSEY. Please your Highness, note	
Wake and find nothing. But, alas, I swerve;	
Walk in the orchard, and our whole discourse	
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.	
Want similes, truth tir'd with iteration-	
Wanting a hand to give it that accord?	
Was as a scorpion to her sight; whose life,	
Was better worth than all my father's lands,	
Was borne so like a soldier that thy cheek	
Was both herself and Love; O, then, give pity	
Was call'd Belarius.	
Was fairer than his grandame, and as chaste	
Was heavy on me. Thou art so far before,	
Was mine in Britain; for the ring is won.	
Was my great father-in-law, renowned Warwick,	
Was never call'd to bear my part,	
Was once thought honest. You have loved him well;	
Was re-united to the Crown of France.	
Was there with him, if I have heard a truth.	
Was to them as a painting. Now this masque	
Wash my fierce hand in's heart. Go you to th' city;	
Wasted our country, slain our citizens,	
We English warriors wot not what it means.	
We and our wives and children all will fight	
We answer others' merits in our name,	
We are blest that Rome is rid of him.	
We are enforc'd to farm our royal realm;	
We beg your hearing patiently.                     [Exit.]	
We both have fed as well, and we can both	
We bring it to the hive, and, like the bees,	
We cannot fight for love as men may do;	
We cannot get from him.	
We dare not move the question of our place	
We do condemn thee to the very block	
We do no otherwise than we are will'd.	
We few, we happy few, we band of brothers;	
We go to use our hands and not our tongues.	
We have beat them to their beds. What, girl! though grey	
We have caught the woodcock, and will keep him muffled	
We have had pastimes here, and pleasant game;	
We in your motion turn, and you may move us.	
We kept together in our chivalry.'	
We kill the fowl of season; shall we serve heaven	
We lack'd your counsel and your help tonight.	
We men may say more, swear more, but indeed	
We must give up to Diomedes' hand	
We never yet made doubt but Rome was ready	
We please to have it grow. Check thy contempt;	
We scarcely think our miseries our foes.	
We shall appear before him.- On, there; pass along.	
We shall be bless'd to do, if he remember	
We shall be short'ned in our aim, which was	
We shall be winnow'd with so rough a wind	
We shall thrive now. Seest thou, my good fellow?	
We stand up peerless.	
We were to question farther; but I now	
We will bear home that lusty blood again	
We will bestow ourselves.- [To Ophelia] Read on this book,	
We will for Ireland; and 'tis time, I trow.	
We will persuade him, be it possible,	
We will untread the steps of damned flight,	
We will, fair Queen, up to the mountain's top,	
We wish it ours again; the present pleasure,	
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-	
We'll none of him, but let him, like an engine	
We'll not commend what we intend to sell.	
We'll over-reach the greybeard, Gremio,	
We'll rest us, Hermia, if you think it good,	
We'll serve him too, and be his fellow so.	
We'll sift this matter further.	
We'll teach you-	
Weary with toil, I haste me to my bed,	
Wedges of gold, great anchors, heaps of pearl,	
Weeke weeke!	
Weeping before for what she saw must come,	
Weigh but the crime with this.	
Weigh oath with oath, and you will nothing weigh:	
Weigh what convenience both of time and means	
Welcome, pure wit! Thou part'st a fair fray.	
Well could I curse away a winter's night,	
Well may you prosper!	
Well shalt thou know her by thine own proportion,	
Well struck in years, fair, and not jealous;	
Well worthy the best heir o' th' world, should not	
Well, I'll repent, and that suddenly, while I am in some liking.	
Well, a horn for my money, when all's done.	
Well, gaoler, on; pray God Bassanio come	
Well, honor is the subject of my story.	
Well, of sufferance comes ease.	
Well, there is sixpence to preserve thee.	
Were I the wearer of Antonius' beard,	
Were but a weak disabling of myself.	
Were equal poise of sin and charity.	
Were gracious in the eyes of royal Rome,	
Were growing time once ripened to my will.	
Were he the veriest antic in the world.	
Were in the Washes all unwarily	
Were poor and single business to contend	
Were present when she finish'd.	
Were there no more but it.	
Were there surpris'd and taken prisoners.	
Were thinly scattered, to make up a show.	
Were to incense the boar to follow us	
Westminster Abbey	
Westminster. Another chamber	
What Caesar doth, what suitors press to him.	
What I have spoke; but farewell compliment!	
What I shall think is good? The Princess!	
What an ass it is! Then thou dwell'st with daws too?	
What answer makes King Lewis unto our letters?	
What appetite you have.	
What are you then determined to do?	
What are your pleasures with me, reverend lords?	
What comfortable hour canst thou name	
What cursed foot wanders this way to-night	
What dreadful noise of waters in my ears,	
What drink'st thou oft, instead of homage sweet,	
What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?	
What feats he did that day. Then shall our names,	
What freezings have I felt, what dark days seen!	
What have I brought you to do?	
What heart, head, sword, force, means, but is Lord Timon's?	
What is amiss, plague and infection mend!	
What is it that you would impart to me?	
What is the matter there?	
What is the remedy?	
What is unsettled in the King.	
What it is worth embrac'd.	
What kind of my obedience I should tender;	
What louring star now envies thy estate	
What lusty trumpet thus doth summon us?	
What man is there so much unreasonable,	
What many men desire- that 'many' may be meant	
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste	
What my tongue speaks, my right drawn sword may prove.	
What news, Sir Thomas Lovell?	
What page's suit she hath in readiness.	
What peer hath been suborn'd to grate on you	
What power the Duke of York had levied there;	
What rubbish, and what offal, when it serves	
What say you, Simon Catling?	
What says King Bolingbroke? Will his Majesty	
What shall I say to thee, Lord Scroop, thou cruel,	
What shall be done? He will not hear till feel.	
What shall be said to thee?	
What should I say to you? Should I not say	
What should this mean?	
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?	
What simpleness is this.- I come, I come!             Knock.	
What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty	
What subject can give sentence on his king?	
What then he said, so he unsay it now.	
What they are us'd to bear.	
What they are yet, I know not; but they shall be	
What time the shepherd, blowing of his nails,	
What to ourselves in passion we propose,	
What too curious dreg espies my sweet lady in the fountain of our	
What valiant foemen, like to autumn's corn,	
What viler thing upon the earth than friends,	
What you would ask me, that I should deny,	
What you would have reform'd that is not well,	
What! I love, I sue, I seek a wife-	
What's done i' th' Capitol, who's like to rise,	
What's like to be their words: 'We did request it;	
What's new to speak, what now to register,	
What, and my old Venetian friend, Salerio!	
What, are men mad? Hath nature given them eyes	
What, art thou like the adder waxen deaf?	
What, dead, my dove?	
What, do you grumble? I'll be with you straight.	
What, out of hearing gone? No sound, no word?	
What, shall King Henry be a pupil still,	
What, was it you that would be England's king?	
What, wilt thou on thy death-bed play the ruffian	
What, with a torch? Muffle me, night, awhile.     [Retires.]	
Whate'er falls more. We must to horse again;	
When I (perhaps) compounded am with clay,	
When I am sometime absent from thy heart,	
When I did speak of some distressful stroke	
When I had seen this hot love on the wing	
When I to feast expressly am forbid;	
When I was dry with rage and extreme toll,	
When Lear is mad. What wouldst thou do, old man?	
When adverse foreigners affright my towns	
When brewers mar their malt with water;	
When crouching marrow, in the bearer strong,	
When evils are most free? O, then, by day	
When gallant-springing brave Plantagenet,	
When have I aught exacted at your hands,	
When he had carried Rome and that we look'd	
When he to madding Dido would unfold	
When icicles hang by the wall,	
When it hoars ere it be spent.	
When it should move ye to attend me most,	
When nature brought him to the door of death?	
When neither are alive.	
When not to be, receives reproach of being,	
When others are more wicked; not being the worst	
When our sea-walled garden, the whole land,	
When returns Cranmer?	
When she had fitted you with her craft, to work	
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport	
When she shall hear this of thee, with her nails	
When shepherds pipe on oaten straws,	
When slanders do not live in tongues,	
When sparkling stars twire not thou gild'st the even.	
When such profound respects do pull you on.	
When swift extremity can seem but slow?	
When that churl death my bones with dust shall cover	
When the false Troyan under sail was seen,	
When the man dies, let the inheritance	
When the rash mood is on.	
When the suspicious head of theft is stopp'd.	
When they are fretten with the gusts of heaven;	
When this advice is free I give and honest,	
When this is known, then to divide the times-	
When thou shalt be disposed to set me light,	
When time hath sow'd a grizzle on thy case?	
When we have laugh'd to see the sails conceive,	
When what I seek (my weary travel's end)	
When you and he came back from Ravenspurgh-	
When you are better temper'd to attend.	
When you come 'cross his humour. Faith, he does.	
When you have well deserv'd ten times as much	
When, for his hand, he had his two sons' heads;	
Where I have hope to see the nuptial	
Where I was wont to feed you with my blood,	
Where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill	
Where being apprehended, his false cunning,	
Where for this many hundred years the bones	
Where have you left the money that I gave you?	
Where have you lurk'd, that you make doubt of it?	
Where he himself was lost; Prospero his dukedom	
Where how he did prevail I shame to speak-	
Where is Lucentio?	
Where is best place to make our batt'ry next.	
Where is he? In his bed?	
Where lies thy grief, O, tell me, good Dumain?	
Where lies your text?	
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.	
Where never Roman shall take note of him.              Exit.	
Where our desire is got without content.	
Where she, at least, is banish'd from your eye,	
Where slept our scouts or how are they seduc'd	
Where they did spend a sad and bloody hour;	
Where this is question'd send our letters with	
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?	
Where valiant Talbot, above human thought,	
Where we decreed to bury Bassianus.	
Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough	
Where would you had remain'd until this time,	
Where you may be, or your affairs suppose,	
Where you may see the inmost part of you.	
Where'er it be, in heaven or in earth.	
Where's Fulvia's process? Caesar's I would say? Both?	
Where's your commission, lords? Words cannot carry	
Where't should be branded, if that right were right,	
Where, being but young, I framed to the harp	
Where, like Arion on the dolphin's back,	
Wherein I did not some notorious ill;	
Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings;	
Wherein my grandsire and my father sat?	
Wherein the worship of the whole world lies.	
Whereof I shall not have intelligence.	
Whereof you are a well-deserving pillar,	
Whereto th' inviting time our fashion calls:	
Whereto we are bound? Alack, or we must lose	
Which I dare vouch is more than that he hath	
Which I disdaining scorn'd, and craved death	
Which I do owe you.	
Which I have heavily borne, there ran a rumor	
Which I presume shall render you no blame,	
Which I with more than with a common pain	
Which Lion vile with bloody mouth did stain.	
Which after-hours gives leisure to repent.	
Which all the while ran blood, great Caesar fell.	
Which argued thee a most unloving father.	
Which bewept to the grave did not go	
Which bleeds away even as a form of wax	
Which both thy duty owes and our power claims;	
Which by his death hath lost much majesty.	
Which by my presence might have been concluded.	
Which by thy younger brother is supplied,	
Which can distinguish sound.	
Which casket 'twas I chose; next, if I fail	
Which daily grew to quarrel and to bloodshed,	
Which dar'st not, no, nor canst not rule a traitor.	
Which did subdue the greatest part of Spain;	
Which doth amount to three odd ducats more	
Which easily endures not article	
Which forced marriage would have brought upon her.	
Which fronted mine own peace. As for my wife,	
Which gives men stomach to digest his words	
Which has no need of you; be gone.	
Which he hath left so shapeless and so rude.	
Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;	
Which heaven hath forbid the Ottomites?	
Which heavily he answers with a groan,	
Which his aspiring rider seem'd to know,	
Which hurts and is desir'd. Dost thou lie still?	
Which in the day of battle tire thee more	
Which in the right of Richard Plantagenet	
Which in the scuffles of great fights hath burst	
Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy.	
Which is a great way growing on the south,	
Which is indeed but sign. That you shall surely find him,	
Which is not yet perform'd me.	
Which is so serious. Let us bury him,	
Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow.	
Which is the high and mighty Agamemnon?	
Which is the ladder of all high designs,	
Which is the merchant here, and which the Jew?	
Which is the side that I must go withal?	
Which lead directly to the door of truth,	
Which like a jewel (hung in ghastly night)	
Which live like venom where no venom else	
Which long ere this we offer'd to the King,	
Which makes me fear th' enjoying of my love;	
Which must approve thee honest. 'If Pisanio	
Which my heart knows the wide world's common place?	
Which native she doth owe.	
Which ne'er I did remember; to my knowledge,	
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,	
Which now, two tender bedfellows for dust,	
Which of the two was daughter of the Duke	
Which our divines lose by 'em.	
Which outwardly ye show? My noble partner	
Which owe the crown that thou o'er-masterest?	
Which shines here in the west.	
Which should not find a ground to root upon	
Which signifies what hate they bear their Emperor	
Which some did die to look on. And all this-	
Which sometime hath his hour with every man.	
Which steals men's eyes and women's souls amazeth.	
Which that sweet tongue hath made,	
Which then blew bitterly against our faces,	
Which they themselves not feel; but, tasting it,	
Which thou hast perpendicularly fell.	
Which thou shalt thereby reap is such a name	
Which three till now, never kept seat in one.	
Which was a sin-yet in bestowing, madam,	
Which waste of idle hours hath quite thrown down.	
Which we have done, whose answer would be death,	
Which weighs upon the heart?	
Which were inshell'd when Marcius stood for Rome,	
Which wrought to his desire.	
Which you knew none of yours. What might you think?	
Which, as your due, time claims, he does acknowledge;	
Which, in his nonage, council under him,	
Which, in the bluster of thy wrath, must fall	
Which, like a bourn, a pale, a shore, confines	
Which, like a usurer, abound'st in all,	
Which, like the courser's hair, hath yet but life	
Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous,	
Which- for they yet glance by and scarcely bruise-	
While all is shar'd and all is borne away,	
While he did bear my countenance in the town;	
While she was in her dull and sleeping hour,	
Whiles I in Ireland nourish a mighty band,	
Whiles he is vaulting variable ramps,	
Whiles others play the idiots in her eyes!	
Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,	
Whiles thou, a moral fool, sit'st still, and criest	
Whiles, in his moan, the ship splits on the rock,	
Whilst I, by looking on the praise of him,	
Whilst he, from the one side to the other turning,	
Whilst the screech-owl, screeching loud,	
Whilst to take order for the wrongs I went,	
Whilst your great goodness, out of holy pity,	
Whistle Boy.	
Whither away, or where is thy abode?	
Whither wilt thou go? Take good Cominius	
Who at Philippi the good Brutus ghosted,	
Who chants a doleful hymn to his own death,	
Who died and was Fidele. What think you?	
Who gave his blood to lime the stones together,	
Who hath a story ready for your ear.	
Who if he break thou mayst with better face	
Who in a moment even with the earth	
Who in contempt shall hiss at thee again;	
Who is it that can tell me who I am?	
Who is't can read a woman? Is there more?	
Who knocks so hard? Whence come you? What's your will	
Who lead thee in their riot even there	
Who loves to lie with me,	
Who put unluckily into this bay	
Who shall be of as little memory	
Who should express her goodliest. You have seen	
Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.	
Who sometime, in his better tune, remembers	
Who spake aloud 'What scourge for perjury	
Who was the first of Britain which did put	
Who wears my stripes impress'd upon him, that	
Who would not wish to be from wealth exempt,	
Who, but for dreaming on this fond exploit,	
Who, by the art of known and feeling sorrows,	
Who, every word by all my wit being scann'd,	
Who, ring'd about with bold adversity,	
Who, stuck and spangled with your flatteries,	
Who, weak with age, cannot support myself.	
Who, with his shears and measure in his hand,	
Whoever charges on his forward breast,	
Whom I unnaturally shall disinherit.	
Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world	
Whom thine eyes woo as mine importune thee,	
Whom thou lov'st best. See thou dissemble not.	
Whom we have left protectors of the King,	
Whose aged honour cites a virtuous youth,	
Whose baser stars do shut us up in wishes,	
Whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof-	
Whose footing here anticipates our thoughts	
Whose heart within his bosom is.	
Whose hearts have left their bodies here in England	
Whose hot incursions and great name in arms	
Whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace,	
Whose joy of her is overwhelm'd like mine,	
Whose minister you are, whiles here He liv'd	
Whose mouth is covered with rude-growing briers,	
Whose note full many a man doth mark,	
Whose private with me of the Dauphin's love	
Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill.	
Whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves,	
Whose veins bound richer blood than Lady Blanch?	
Whose wisdom hath her fortune conquered;	
Whose youthful spirit, in me regenerate,	
Why and wherein Caesar was dangerous.	
Why does my blood thus muster to my heart,	
Why dost not speak? What, deaf? Not a word?	
Why followed not, when she said 'Tybalt's dead,'	
Why grow the branches when the root is gone?	
Why have my sisters husbands, if they say	
Why have you suffer'd me to be imprison'd,	
Why seek'st thou then to cover with excuse	
Why should that name be sounded more than yours?	
Why should we in our peevish opposition	
Why sigh'st thou without breaking?	
Why stay'st thou here, and go'st not to the Duke?	
Why the man dies.- I humbly thank you, sir.	
Why then, O brawling love! O loving hate!	
Why then, good night indeed.	
Why then, let's on our way in silent sort.	
Why they are so, but, like to village curs,	
Why thou against the Church, our holy mother,	
Why, courage then! What cannot be avoided	
Why, every fault's condemn'd ere it be done;	
Why, lamb! why, lady! Fie, you slug-abed!	
Why, lords, and think you not how dangerous	
Why, then she lives.	
Why, this is flat knavery to take upon you another man's name.	
Why, what a candy deal of courtesy	
Why, when, I say? Nay, good sweet Kate, be merry.	
Wife. Well, think of marriage now. Younger than you,	
Will I lend ear to.  [Shout within]  Ha! what shout is this?	
Will bless it, and approve it with a text,	
Will but amount to five and twenty thousand,	
Will greet us here anon. My gentle Varrius!           Exeunt	
Will hold at Windsor. So inform the lords;	
Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,	
Will not proclaim against her maiden loss,	
Will pack when it begins to rain	
Will purchase us a good opinion,	
Will raise your Highness such a mighty sum	
Will remain hers.	
Will render you no remedy, this ring	
Will she not forth?	
Will stupefy and dull the sense awhile,	
Will then be pang'd by me. Prithee dispatch.	
Will thither straight, for willingness rids way;	
Will well become the seat of majesty	
Will yield to see his daughter.	
Will you give thanks, sweet Kate, or else shall I?	
Will you undo yourselves?	
Will you yet hold? How came my man i' th' stocks?	
Will'd me to leave my base vocation	
Willing to leave their burden. Reach a chair.	
Willing you to demand your hostages,	
Wilt thou go dig a grave to find out war	
Wilt thou yet leave the battle, boy, and fly,	
Windsor Castle	
Wingham-	
Wink at the Duke of Suffolk's insolence,	
Wishers were ever fools. O come, come,	
With Clifford and the haught Northumberland,	
With Eleanor for telling but her dream?	
With a more riotous appetite.	
With all graces wide-enlarg'd.	
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;	
With all his threat'ning band of Typhon's brood,	
With all triumphant splendour on my brow,	
With amber bracelets, beads, and all this knav'ry.	
With amplest entertainment. My free drift	
With any size of words.	
With base? with baseness? bastardy? base, base?	
With best advantage will deceive the time	
With bleared visages come forth to view	
With candle-wasters--bring him yet to me,	
With checks as flatteries, when they are seen abus'd.	
With cunning hast thou filch'd my daughter's heart;	
With dreadful pomp of stout invasion!	
With eager compounds we our palate urge,	
With eyes as red as new-enkindled fire,	
With eyes best seeing, heaven's fiery eye,	
With fear and horrid flight.	
With full accord to all our just demands;	
With gentle conference, soft and affable.	
With giving him glory.	
With greasy aprons, rules, and hammers, shall	
With groans that thunder love, with sighs of fire.	
With half that face would he have all my land:	
With hearts create of duty and of zeal.	
With hidden help and vantage, or that with both	
With him the husband of this lovely lady;	
With his own bolt; the strong-bas'd promontory	
With his surcease, success; that but this blow	
With hollow poverty and emptiness.	
With honours like himself.                 [CORIOLANUS sits]	
With hope to find the like event in love	
With ignominious words, though clerkly couch'd,	
With language that would make me spurn the sea,	
With lesser weight, but not with lesser woe,	
With like advantage on the other side,	
With lustier maintenance than I did look for	
With man's blood paint the ground, gules, gules.	
With many children by you. If, in the course	
With me, a poor weak woman, fall'n from favour?	
With more of thine. This love that thou hast shown	
With more than half the Gallian territories,	
With my more noble meaning, not a man	
With odd old ends stol'n forth of holy writ,	
With one of an ingraft infirmity.	
With other graces weigh'd.	
With over-weather'd ribs and ragged sails,	
With pestilent speeches of his father's death,	
With promise of his sister, and what else,	
With riotous feeders, when our vaults have wept	
With rounds of waxen tapers on their heads,	
With senators on the bench. This is it	
With shears his thread of silk.	
With some fine colour that may please the eye	
With something rich about me. From that place	
With such a costly loss of wealth and friends.	
With such a hell of pain and world of charge;	
With such a number. What, must I come to you	
With such a zealous laughter, so profound,	
With tears as sovereign as the blood of hearts,	
With that he gave his able horse the head	
With the arm'd rest, courtiers of beauteous freedom,	
With the defunct, or sleep upon the dead.	
With the mere rankness of their joy.	
With this abundance of superfluous breath?	
With this immodest clamorous outrage	
With this night's revels and expire the term	
With this we charg'd again; but out alas!	
With threefold love I wish you all these three.	
With thy embracements to my wife's allies,	
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?	
With twenty mortal murthers on their crowns,	
With twenty trenched gashes on his head,	
With untired spirits and formal constancy.	
With urging helpless patience would relieve me;	
With us in Venice, if it be denied,	
With vile participation. Not an eye	
With visages display'd to talk and greet.	
With what is spoke already.	
With words that made them known. But thy vile race,	
With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-	
Withdraw with us; and let the trumpets sound	
Withdrew me from the odds of multitude.	
Within my tent his bones tonight shall lie,	
Within six hours they will be at his aid.	
Within so small a time, my woman's heart	
Within the fore-rank of our articles.	
Within this three mile may you see it coming;	
Without all ornament, it self and true,	
Without some image of th' affected merit.	
Without the help of any hand at all.	
Without the stamp of merit? Let none presume	
Witness our too much memorable shame	
Witness the fortune he hath had in France.	
Women are soft, mild, pitiful, and flexible:	
Wooing poor craftsmen with the craft of smiles	
Wor. And so they shall.	
Wor. Farewell, kinsman. I will talk to you	
Wor. Good cousin, be advis'd; stir not to-night.	
Wor. In faith, my lord, you are too wilful-blame,	
Wor. O no, my nephew must not know, Sir Richard,	
Wor. Peace, cousin, say no more;	
Wor. The King will bid you battle presently.	
Wor. The number of the King exceedeth ours.	
Wor. True; who bears hard	
Wor. Yea, but a little charge will trench him here	
Worse than the sacring bell, when the brown wench	
Worth many babes and beggars!	
Worthy Saint Michael, and the Golden Fleece,	
Worthy's thumb; he is not so big as the end of his club.	
Would 'twere done!                        [They sit and mark]	
Would God that any in this noble presence	
Would for Carnarvonshire, although there long'd	
Would have reverted to my bow again,	
Would he not stumble? would he not fall down,	
Would in so just a business shut his bosom	
Would leave your griefs, and take my counsel.	
Would more have strength'ned this our commonwealth	
Would not scape censure, nor the redresses sleep,	
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!	
Would testify, t' enrich mine inventory.	
Would that alone a love he would detain,	
Would they make peace? Terrible hell make war	
Would think upon you for your voices, and	
Would you imagine, or almost believe-	
Wouldst thou not spit at me and spurn at me,	
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.	
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue,	
Writ o' both sides the leaf, margent and all,	
Writ to your Grace from th' Duke of Burgundy.	
Write 'Lord have mercy on us' on those three;	
Wrong hath but wrong, and blame the due of blame.          Exeunt	
Wrong right, base noble, old young, coward valiant.	
YORK. A gentleman of mine I have dispatch'd	
YORK. As in a theatre the eyes of men	
YORK. Ay, mother; but I would not have it so.	
YORK. Base dunghill villain and mechanical,	
YORK. Curse, miscreant, when thou comest to the stake.	
YORK. Dispatch- this knave's tongue begins to double.	
YORK. Even in condition of the worst degree-	
YORK. Five men to twenty! Though the odds be great,	
YORK. Hold, Warwick, seek thee out some other chase,	
YORK. I thank you, gentle uncle. O, my lord,	
YORK. I'll tell thee, Suffolk, why I am unmeet:	
YORK. It was, villain, ere thy hand did set it down.	
YORK. Lay hands upon these traitors and their trash.	
YORK. O God, that Somerset, who in proud heart	
YORK. Thanks, gentle Norfolk. Stay by me, my lords;	
YORK. That face of his the hungry cannibals	
YORK. This oath I willingly take, and will perform.	
YORK. To do that office of thine own good will	
YORK. Well, bear you well in this new spring of time,	
YORK. You will be there, I know.	
YOUNG CLIFFORD. And so to arms, victorious father,	
Yea, and furr'd moss besides, when flow'rs are none,	
Yea, even the slightest worship of his time,	
Yea, the whole Consistory of Rome. You charge me	
Yes, faith, heartily.	
Yet 'tis not madness. Where's Antonio, then?	
Yet Aeolus would not be a murderer,	
Yet I am none. Whose tongue soe'er speaks false,	
Yet I have fac'd it with a card of ten.	
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.	
Yet an arch-villain keeps him company.	
Yet can I not of such tame patience boast	
Yet did repent me, after more advice;	
Yet every mother breeds not sons alike:	
Yet fil'd with my abilities; mine own ends	
Yet have I left a daughter.	
Yet have I ventur'd to come seek you out	
Yet in these thoughts my self almost despising,	
Yet in this captious and intenible sieve	
Yet it shall be tempest-toss'd.	
Yet lives our pilot still. Is't meet that he	
Yet living in my glass; even such and so	
Yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears.	
Yet shall you have all kindness at my hand	
Yet she must die, else she'll betray more men.	
Yet speaks, and peradventure may recover.	
Yet thus far, Griffith, give me leave to speak him,	
Yet weep that Harry's dead, and so will I;	
Yet you desire to marry.	
Yet, I know	
Yet, as we may, we'll meet both thee and Warwick.	
Yet, if you please to hold him off awhile,	
Yet, since it is but green, it should be put	
Yet, wooing thee, I found thee of more value	
Yield to his humour, smooth and speak him fair,	
Yorkshire. Within the Forest of Gaultree	
You adopt your policy, how is it less or worse	
You all consented unto Salisbury's death,	
You all do know this mantle. I remember	
You are as welcome, worthy sir, as I	
You are but newly planted in your throne;	
You are no maiden, but a monument;	
You are so noble. To your Highness' hand	
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all.- I am glad to see thee	
You call'd me dog; and for these courtesies	
You come not home because you have no stomach,	
You come to fright us.	
You do not give the cheer. The feast is sold	
You do remember all the circumstance?	
You drew your sword upon me without cause;	
You greet with present grace and great prediction	
You had not show'd them how ye were dispos'd,	
You have done wrong to this my honest friend;	
You have in that forsworn the use of eyes,	
You have now the good advantage of the night.	
You have, by fortune and his Highness' favours,	
You heavy people, circle me about,	
You knew he walk'd o'er perils on an edge,	
You knew my father well, and in him me,	
You know I am a woman, lacking wit	
You know how apt our love was to accord	
You know the cause, sir, of my standing here.	
You know the law; your exposition	
You know the wager?	
You may my glories and my state depose,	
You minimus, of hind'ring knot-grass made;	
You must needs dine with me. Go not you hence	
You must not stay here longer; your dismission	
You must perforce accomplish as you may.	
You promis'd knighthood to our forward son:	
You rise to play, and go to bed to work.	
You say he is so fell.	
You see we do, yet see you but our hands	
You see we have burnt our cheeks. Strong Enobarb	
You shall know all, that you are like to know,	
You shall not make me welcome.	
You shall this twelvemonth term from day to day	
You shall to th' Tower.	
You should have been well on your way to York.	
You should live twice in it, and in my rhyme.	
You should not ruffle thus. What will you do?	
You should not use me so.	
You speak not like yourself, who ever yet	
You take my house when you do take the prop	
You taking airs, with lameness!	
You taught me but while-ere?	
You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?	
You understand me, sir. So shall you stay	
You understand me?	
You were as good to shoot against the wind.	
You were best meddle with buck-washing.	
You yours, Orlando, to receive his daughter;	
You'll make a mutiny among my guests!	
You, gracious madam, to unthink your speaking	
You, you, sirrah, where's my daughter?	
Young, valiant, wise, and no doubt right royal-	
Your Grace attended to their sug'red words	
Your Grace shall well and quietly enjoy.	
Your angry choler on your enemies.	
Your answer had not been inscroll'd.	
Your brother did employ my father much-	
Your business was more welcome.	
Your cuckoo sings by kind.	
Your differences shall all rest under gage	
Your discipline in war, wisdom in peace,	
Your fellow Tranio here, to save my life,	
Your first is dead- or 'twere as good he were	
Your friar is now your prince. As I was then	
Your honour with your form.	
Your horrible pleasure. Here I stand your slave,	
Your ignorant election. Enforce his pride	
Your infants in your arms, and there have sat	
Your lady's love against some other maid	
Your light grows dark by losing of your eyes.	
Your lord, I mean- laughs from's free lungs, cries 'O,	
Your loss is great, so your regard should be;	
Your love deserves my thanks, but my desert	
Your mariners are muleteers, reapers, people	
Your mere enforcement shall acquittance me	
Your mother lives a witness to his vow-	
Your mystery, your mystery; nay, dispatch.           Exit Emilia.	
Your oaths are pass'd; and now subscribe your names,	
Your only choice.	
Your own good thoughts excuse me, and farewell.	
Your partner in the cause 'gainst which he fought,	
Your patience to you and be well contented	
Your pens to lances, and your tongue divine	
Your princely father and my loving lord!	
Your provost knows the place where he abides,	
Your safety, for the which myself and them	
Your sauciness will jest upon my love,	
Your scruple to the voice of Christendom.	
Your self to pardon of self-doing crime.	
Your sense pursues not mine; either you are ignorant	
Your spirit is too true, your fears too certain.	
Your state of fortune and your due of birth,	
Your uncle Worcester's horse came but to-day;	
Your visitation shall receive such thanks	
[ Giving him money]	
[A noise within]	
[A table brought in. The company sit down]	
[AJAX and HECTOR enter the lists]	
[All together here]	
[Aside to PORTIA]  I'll See if I can get my husband's ring,	
[Aside]  And pray the Roman gods confound you both!	
[Aside] Here comes a flattering rascal; upon him	
[Burden: Ding-dong.]	
[CHARLES and the rest give tokens of fealty]	
[Converses apart with the KING, and delivers a paper]	
[Disarms]	
[Drum and trumpet. Chambers discharg'd]	
[Enter Knight]	
[Enter Nurse.]	
[Enter a Gentleman.]	
[Enter a Messenger.]	
[Exeunt Prince and Poins.]	
[Exeunt all but OLIVIA and VIOLA] Give me your hand, sir.	
[Exeunt some of the Watch.]	
[Exit Antonio.]	
[Exit a Knight.] Where's my fool, ho? I think the world's	
[Flourish. The KING and his train enter the town]	
[Flourish. They go up into the Senate House]	
[Flourish]	
[Hautboys]	
[He lays his breast open; she offers at it with his sword]	
[He stabs the EMPRESS]	
[He whispers in his ear]	
[Hides the gold]	
[Horns and shout within. The sleepers	
[Knock]	
[Lays his hand on his head]	
[Lays his hand on his heart.]	
[MOTH sings Concolinel]	
[Offering him food]	
[Opening a letter]	
[Pointing to the servant who carries off LEPIDUS]	
[Points at Lear] That's a sheal'd peascod.	
[Presenting HORTENSIO]	
[Puts down the skull.]	
[Reads]	
[Reads] the letter.	
[Scatters flowers.]	
[Servants bind him.]	
[She gives the DUCHESS a box on the ear]	
[Sings] O, a pit of clay for to be made	
[Stabs him]	
[Strikes him]	
[Strikes him]	
[The English scale the walls and cry 'Saint George!	
[They all shout and throw up their caps]	
[They approach the arbour.]	
[They draw]	
[They fight again]	
[They lead him out forcibly]	
[They retire]	
[They shake their heads]	
[They withdraw into the tent]	
[Throws down gauntlet]	
[To ANTONIO]  Give me your gloves, I'll wear them for your sake.	
[To CRANMER]  Good man, sit down. Now let me see the proudest	
[To Cordelia] The gods to their dear shelter take thee, maid,	
[To Glend.] Within that space you may have drawn together	
[To Goneril] Yes, forsooth, I will hold my tongue. So your face	
[To LAVINIA]  Thou map of woe, that thus dost talk in signs!	
[To Lucio] Sneak not away, sir, for the friar and you	
[To NESTOR] And, thou most reverend, for thy stretch'd-out life,	
[To ORLANDO] You to a love that your true faith doth merit;	
[To RICHMOND]  Thou quiet soul, sleep thou a quiet sleep;	
[To VINCENTIO]  Good-morrow, gentle mistress; where away?-	
[To WARWICK]  You, cousin Nevil, as I may remember-	
[Whispers CHARMIAN]	
a Dutch dish, to be thrown into the Thames, and cool'd,	
a banished father, you must not learn me how to remember any	
a better. I meant, indeed, to pay you with this; which if like an	
a buck of the first head.	
a little worse than a man, and when he is worst, he is little	
a longer table for the guests. Then enter ANNE BULLEN,	
a naked blind boy in her naked seeing self? It were, my lord, a	
a peal of ordnance. Enter soldiers	
a thing to you from his Majesty.	
able, and yet reserve an ability that they never perform; vowing	
acquainted with goldsmiths' wives, and conn'd them out of rings?	
added to your having, gave you some ground.	
admiral, thou bearest the lantern in the poop- but 'tis in the	
advanc'd by the King than by that red-tail'd humble-bee I speak	
advice, it toucheth us both- that we may yet again have access to	
after thee? Wilt thou, after the expense of so much money,	
again into his native quarter, be magnanimous in the enterprise,	
again. She hath despis'd me rejoicingly, and I'll be merry in my	
against all patience, and, in roaring for a chamber-pot, dismiss	
against all proportion of subjection.	
against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French	
alewife's new petticoat, and so peep'd through.	
all.	
almanac to that?	
almanacs can report. This cannot be cunning in her; if it be, she	
alters? A man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure	
am not a woman, to be touch'd with so many giddy offences as he	
amaz'd, he will every way be mock'd.	
ambitious for poor knaves' caps and legs; you wear out a good	
amounts to.	
an ass, and a fool, and a prating coxcomb? In your own	
an injury, I never found man that knew how to love himself. Ere I	
an intolerable fright to be detected with a jealous rotten	
an they be not, let them hang themselves in their own straps.	
and 'a said it was a black soul burning in hell?	
and Beatrice his Niece, and a Kinsman; [also Margaret and Ursula].	
and God give thee joy!	
and I will use your skill.--Good cousin, have a care this busy	
and MICHAEL WILLIAMS	
and Officers with Iago, prisoner.	
and SIR THOMAS LOVELL, with others. The CARDINAL places himself	
and SOLDIERS	
and a CAPTAIN	
and a crow of iron.	
and a worse matter than that. I have received a letter this	
and all together.	
and brain to breed it in? When came this to you? Who brought it?	
and by it will strike.	
and chapeless; with two broken points; his horse hipp'd, with an	
and clocks the tongues of bawds, and dials the signs of leaping	
and dares better be damn'd than to do 't.	
and divers other LADIES and GENTLEMEN, as guests, at one door;	
and his head borne to Angelo.	
and hot blood begets hot thoughts, and hot thoughts beget hot	
and look on during the dance].	
and others	
and purpose of unkindness. I will look further into't. But	
and see if you can see my master, Master Doctor	
and so shall Trinculo.	
and such odd sayings, the Sisters Three and such branches of	
and taken following her into the park; which, put together, is in	
and that instructed him to mercy.	
and the bones.	
and the boy flies from her with his books under his arm.	
and the lips; but this I can let you understand: the greater file	
and the pipe. I have known when he would have walk'd ten mile	
and thyself shall be viceroys. Dost thou like the plot,	
and under that habit play the knave with him.- Do you hear,	
and when I cannot live any longer, I will do as I may. That is my	
and with guilty fear	
and, my lord, he speaks most vilely of you, like a foul-mouth'd	
angry?	
answer me with your sword.	
any kind o' thing than a fool! And yet I would not be thee,	
anything for the intelligence of this whore; the parrot will not	
anything in this desert. Cheerly, good Adam!          Exeunt	
appertains to us both. I think our father will hence to-night.	
apprehensive, quick, forgetive, full of nimble, fiery, and	
ardent zeal would set whole realms on fire.	
are arrested for it, Master Brook.	
are coming.	
are done and past, and his estate shrinks from him.	
are going, to a most festinate preparation. We are bound to the	
are kin to the King; for they never prick their finger but they	
are legs for necessity, not for flexure.	
are you a courtier?	
arms again.	
army of any sort.	
art as foolish Christian creatures as I would desires.	
article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make	
as a man in his case may do. Has here writ a letter to you; I	
as a squash is before 'tis a peascod, or a codling when 'tis	
as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage of	
as he thinks- the most brave, valorous, and thrice-worthy	
as hot as molten lead, and as heavy too. God keep lead out of me!	
as oft with your master as with my mistress: think I saw your	
as soundly swing'd for this- you blue-bottle rogue, you filthy	
asleep.	
at another, with hers	
at my house, and my house doth stand by the church.	
at my house: thither they send one another. I'll question her.	
at nothing.	
at the court, but you kiss your hands; that courtesy would be	
back again to my mother.	
bald-pated lying rascal, you must be hooded, must you? Show your	
bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to	
be much at one. But, Kate, dost thou understand thus much	
be touch'd?	
bear, slow as the elephant-a man into whom nature hath so crowded	
beard thee too. Look on me well: I have eat no meat these five	
beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what	
been put together with so mortal a purpose as then each bore,	
before me is nearer to his reverence.	
before us. Away with her to prison. Go to; no more words. [Exeunt	
beguil'd Master Slender of his chain cozen'd him of it.	
beguile me of it. I bought you a dozen of shirts to your back.	
behalf of that Falstaff.	
belie her. Lie with her! 'Zounds, that's fulsome! Handkerchief-	
betray me, and get a thousand crowns of the King by carrying my	
between twelve and one, ev'n at the turning o' th' tide; for	
birding-pieces.	
blackberries, I would give no man a reason upon compulsion, I.	
blind, with a muffler afore her eyes, to signify to you that	
blindness, who cannot see many a fair French city for one fair	
blows, and so is an ass.	
body are as well drawn as his; no less young, more strong, not	
boots; we'll ride all night. O sweet Pistol! Away, Bardolph!	
borne	
both my plate and the tapestry of my dining-chambers.	
box. Do intend vat I speak? A green-a box.	
branch of victory. Have you no song, forester, for this purpose?	
break our necks, they respect not us.	
breaking-out of mirth, as it were, I have acquainted you withal,	
breath, and foul breath is noisome. Therefore I will depart	
bred.	
breed ballad-makers.	
bridle it. He shall die, an it be but for pleading so well for	
brother	
brother and that I am a proper fellow of my hands; and those two	
brother's purpose herein, and have by underhand means laboured to	
brows.	
business, which he knows is not to be done; damns himself to do,	
but I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go dully by us.	
but as all is mortal in nature, so is all nature in love mortal	
but bound to't.	
but grace, being the soul of your complexion, shall keep the body	
but in, as others do, to try with him the strength of my youth.	
but little more to say, sir, of his honesty. He has everything	
but not to the purpose. Signior Romeo, bon jour! There's a French	
but you fall to some discord. You are both, i' good truth, as	
but, as they say, to hear music the general does not greatly	
but, for the elegancy, facility, and golden cadence of poesy,	
butcher's wife, come in then and call me gossip Quickly? Coming	
by William Shakespeare	
by William Shakespeare	
by William Shakespeare	
by William Shakespeare	
by William Shakespeare	
by him	
by my coming. Every man has his fault, and honesty is his. I ha'	
can call them all by their christen names, as Tom, Dick, and	
cannot be a man with wishing; therefore I will die a woman with	
cannot tell.	
cannot yet find in my heart to repent. Here he comes; I pray you	
case is miserable.                                    Exeunt	
cast up their caps and lances. COMINIUS and LARTIUS stand bare	
certain of my creditors; and yet, to say the truth, I had as lief	
certainly-	
chain; but I warrant you, the women have so cried and	
chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this	
chape of his dagger.	
cheerfully.	
chests in Corioli and the gold that's in them. Is the Senate	
chev'ril glove to a good wit. How quickly the wrong side may be	
chick,	
chin. Indeed, she has a marvell's white hand, I must needs	
chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a	
clamors.	
coals. They would have me as familiar with men's pockets as their	
coffer, chest, trunk, well, vault, but he hath an abstract for	
come forth?	
come; I'll take my leave of the Jew in the twinkling.	
comfit-maker's wife. 'Not you, in good sooth!' and 'as true as I	
coming forth is thought of, which imports to the kingdom so much	
command that their wives be as free as heart can wish or tongue	
commendation.'	
commerce with my lady, and will by and by depart.	
commoners and inland petty spirits muster me all to their	
company, his cause being just and his quarrel honourable.	
company.	
competent injury; therefore, get you on and give him his desire.	
concerning his imprisonment was rather-	
conquer the kingdom as to speak so much more French: I shall	
content you?	
convey him out. Be not amaz'd; call all your senses to you;	
convoy; who came off bravely, who was shot, who disgrac'd, what	
coranto.	
cost him a thousand pound ere 'a be cured.	
costard when I have goot opportunities for the ork. Pless	
counsel,	
counsel. Come, my coach! Good night, ladies. Good night, sweet	
court where your lady is, with no more advantage than the	
court, I take it there's but two ways- either to utter them or	
court, shepherd?	
courteous office as to know of the knight what my offence to him	
courtier's beard; he sent me word, if I said his beard was not	
coward, but he's the very devil incardinate.	
cried 'budget' as Anne and I had appointed; and yet it was	
crown me	
crying; for the ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baes will	
cuckold, he's my drudge. He that comforts my wife is the	
cunning in protestation; only downright oaths, which I never use	
curious-knotted garden. There did I see that low-spirited swain,	
danc'd, and under that was I born. Cousins, God give you joy!	
dance, and if he found her accordant, he meant to take the	
daughter told us all.	
day to that day, that it is a shame to be thought on. There is no	
days' respite; for the which you are to do me both a present and	
days, yet come thou and thy five men and if I do not leave you	
dear Isis, keep decorum, and fortune him accordingly!	
deeds; for 'a never broke any man's head but his own, and that	
degree of my betters; and yet I will not compare with an old man.	
delectable shapes; which delivered o'er to the voice, the tongue,	
deliver'd the matter well, when I find the ass in compound with	
deny him.	
denying me a kiss; therefore, patiently and yielding.  [Kissing	
deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison	
desire they were; but, in faith, honest as the skin between his	
desire to see him; thinking of nothing else, putting all affairs	
desire you to touch him, for his biting is immortal; those that	
despite of the flesh and the blood.	
did affect me; and I have heard herself come thus near, that,	
diest before I come, thou art a mocker of my labour. Well said!	
digested. You stay'd well by't in Egypt.	
dilemma.	
disarms him. Iago stabs Emilia.	
diseases.	
disposition? One inch of delay more is a South Sea of discovery.	
dissuade succession, but that they are limed with the twigs that	
distemper, and, forsooth, to search his house for his wife's	
doing.	
dominion, could not be so cruel to me as you, O the dearest of	
doth turn his hate	
down. Then did we two set on you four and, with a word, outfac'd	
drink, and fear not your man.	
drown'd; and these are devils. O, defend me!	
drum and trumpets	
drunk; and he enters with a drum before him and	
drunkards.	
during his life; he could not have scaped sixpence a day. An the	
eaten to death with a rust than to be scoured to nothing with	
employments wherein I should have cause to use thee with a	
encount'red with a man as good as himself. He is but a knight,	
end whereof PROSPERO starts suddenly, and speaks,	
endure her loud alarums, why, man, there be good fellows in the	
enough to hang us all.	
enough, and the other higher, is too flaming praise for a good	
entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father	
equivocates him in a sleep, and giving him the lie, leaves him.	
erewhile.	
esteems himself happy that he hath fall'n into the hands of one-	
excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it	
expedition.	
eyes on thy picture, and my heart on thy every part.	
fain call master.	
fain to hang you.	
fair, virtuous, wise, chaste, constant, qualified, and less	
falcon as the tercel, for all the ducks i' th' river. Go to, go	
familiarity will grow more contempt. But if you say	
farm to buy my crown. I know no ways to mince it in love, but	
farm-house, a-feasting; and thou shalt woo her. Cried	
fashions, which is four terms, or two actions; and 'a shall laugh	
father is so sick; and keeping such vile company as thou art hath	
father.	
fears, as we do, his fears, out of doubt, be of the same relish	
feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my	
fils Henri, Roi d'Angleterre, Heritier de France; and thus in	
fire and water for such a kind heart. But yet I would my	
first-born of Egypt.	
fit too? The rather- saving reverence of the word- for 'tis said	
fit, through all Athens, to play in our interlude before the Duke	
flesh. What's that good for?	
flirt-gills; I am none of his skains-mates. And thou must stand	
flowers of Troy, I can tell you. But mark Troilus; you shall see	
follow me.                                            Exeunt	
fool you were upon the ground.	
foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no fool for fancy, as you	
foolery.	
foolish Imogen, I should have gold enough. It's almost morning,	
foot of the ladder, and by-and-by in as high a flow as the ridge	
foot; fetch you a hair off the great Cham's beard; do you any	
for I see love hath made thee tame snake, and say this to her-	
for a husband, and then have to't afresh. Sweet Bianca! Happy man	
for a monkey.	
for a week, laughter for a month, and a good jest for ever.	
for ale and cakes here, you rude rascals?	
for ever. This lies glowing, I can tell you, and is almost mature	
for indeed I had the most of them out of prison. There's but a	
for the defence of a town our general is excellent.	
for the party that owed it, he might have moe diseases than he	
for the violent breaking out.	
for, none of the French upbraided or abused in disdainful	
forester?	
forget that thou art Jove, the king of gods, and, Mercury, lose	
forget to specify, when time and place shall serve, that I am an	
forsook him; he's much out of health and keeps his chamber.	
fortune hath convey'd to my understanding; and, but that frailty	
forward, we had all been made men.	
friend; and I fear not mine own shame as much as his peril.	
from the answer of his degree.	
full of obstacles: it made me once restore a purse of gold	
gentleman to the extremest shore of my modesty; but my brother	
gifts a curtain before 'em? Are they like to take dust, like	
ginger, nine score and seventeen pounds, of which he made five	
give regard to you. Farewell; and come with better music.	
glowing hot, in that surge, like a horse-shoe; think of that	
go you through the town to Frogmore.	
goblet or a worm-eaten nut.	
goddess, he should take his choice. O admirable man! Paris? Paris	
gold for thee.	
gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity	
good case, and, the truth is, poverty hath distracted her. But	
good trading that way. But tell me, Hal, art not thou horrible	
goodness the hugeness of your unworthy thinking. I dare you to	
goose. But all's brave that youth mounts and folly guides. Who	
gooseberry. You that are old consider not the capacities of us	
great loss. Re-enter CHARLES, ALENCON, and REIGNIER	
greatest admiration in the universal world, when the true and	
greatness back?	
guardant cannot office me from my son Coriolanus. Guess but by my	
had a husband for her bed. Do you smell a fault?	
had been something too fair and too good for any lady in Britain.	
had rather'! Your husband's here at hand; bethink you of	
had the ache in his shoulders! O, you shall see him laugh till	
hands to heaven. And so in their dancing vanish,	
hanged betimes in the morning may sleep the sounder all the next	
hanging of the thieves and so become a rare hangman.	
hard condition for a maid to consign to.	
has he sent now?	
hate him manifests the true knowledge he has in their	
hates nothing more than he. Yet he's gentle; never school'd and	
hath us'd so long and never paid that now men grow hard-hearted	
have a good thing, to make it too common. If ye will needs say I	
have been fubb'd off, and fubb'd off, and fubb'd off, from this	
have earn'd them. You a captain! you slave, for what? For tearing	
have more occasion to know one another. I hope upon	
have the booty, if you and I do not rob them, cut this head off	
have the same dagger for myself, when it shall please my country	
have you been all this while? You a lover! An you serve me such	
have your doublet and hose pluck'd over your head, and show the	
have, I am one that, telling true under him, must say you cannot	
he be there again? In my house I am sure he is; my	
he durst not give me the Lie Direct; and so we measur'd swords	
he had formerly wrote to Pompey; upon his own appeal, seizes him.	
he is	
he is very courageous mad about his throwing into the	
head, which now is growing upon thy shoulders, shall within this	
heads?	
health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath.	
hear me, and let this Count kill me. I have deceived even your	
hear the dialogue that the two learned men have compiled in	
hear them unfolded, turn another into the register of your	
heard you were saucy at my gates, and allow'd your approach	
hearing.	
heaven or in hell!	
hell I should down. I had been drown'd but that the shore	
help the noble Claudio! If he have caught the Benedick, it will	
her by my company.	
her eyes ran o'er.	
her hands cut off, and her tongue cut out, and ravish'd	
her.	
her.	
here my melancholy. Well, she hath one o' my sonnets already; the	
him I say that Brutus' love to Caesar was no less than his. If	
him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation	
him if he came.	
him laughing to his grave, fiftyfold a cuckold! Good Isis, hear	
him, if he forfeit; for, were he out of Venice, I can make what	
him, or else we are all undone.	
him.	
him; such I will have whom I am sure he knows not from the enemy.	
hinds, were call'd forth by their mistress to carry me in	
his WIFE and a multitude following	
his chamber; I'll be so bold as stay, sir, till she come down;	
his kibe.- How long hast thou been a grave-maker?	
his lordship? Let me see them. What is thine?	
his wickedness, by your rule, should be imposed upon his father	
his wife seems to me well-favour'd. I will use her as the	
hogshead.	
home with me.	
home, therefore leave us.	
honesty and constancy. If I read it not truly, my ancient skill	
honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can	
honour	
hopes. Well, Jove, not I, is the doer of this, and he is to be	
house withal; and, I warrant you, no tell-tale nor no	
house.	
house. Her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques le Grand;	
householder; and which is more, as pretty a piece of flesh as any	
how to know a man in love; in which cage of rushes I am sure you	
hundred and fifty left alive; and they are for the town's end, to	
husband had him of. What do you call your knight's	
idle, made of self-love, which is the most inhibited sin in the	
ill thing to be off'red to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.	
in Southwark? I thought ye would never have given out these arms	
in a parlous state, shepherd.	
in convenient order about the stage	
in to borrow a mess of vinegar, telling us she had a good dish of	
in you it best lies; otherwise a seducer flourishes, and a poor	
indeed these humble considerations make me out of love with my	
industry, why, the power and corrigible authority of this lies in	
inside of a church! Company, villanous company, hath been the	
inter'gatories. Demand them singly.	
into more work. But indeed, sir, we make holiday to see Caesar	
is already in snuff.	
is call'd the Countercheck Quarrelsome. And so to the Lie	
is dangerous'- Why, that's certain! 'Tis dangerous to take a	
is in our prison a common executioner, who in his office lacks a	
is one, and I am her fool. When men come to borrow of your	
is sick.	
is the forehead of a married man more honourable than the bare	
is thine'; who, though I speak it before his face, if he be not	
is to come halting off; you know, to come off the breach with his	
is't not?	
it is but a shadow's shadow.	
it pass. I do beseech thee, remember thy courtesy. I beseech	
it shall hang like a meteor o'er the cuckold's horns. Master	
it upon better acquaintance, when we are married and	
it was given me by Costard, and sent me from Don Armado. I	
it will not in circumvention deliver a fly from a spider without	
it- and then let her consider.	
it; he is melancholy without cause and merry against the hair; he	
je suis le bon ecolier; j'ai gagne deux mots d'Anglais vitement.	
jealousy? My wife hath sent to him; the hour is fix'd;	
join not in a hot day; for, by the Lord, I take but two shirts	
judgment in anything.	
judgments, wherein so curiously he had set this counterfeit.	
justly; swear not; commit not with man's sworn spouse; set not	
keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of	
keep the terms of my honour precise. I, I, I myself	
kernal in this light nut; the soul of this man is his clothes;	
key of the cuckoldly rogue's coffer; and there's my harvest-home.	
kill'd a sweet and innocent lady. For my Lord Lackbeard there, he	
kindness	
kingdom; but the midwives say the children are not in the fault;	
kiss.	
kissing-comfits, and snow eringoes; let there come a tempest	
knave's visage, with a pox to you! Show your sheep-biting face,	
knew yet but rebuke and check was the reward of valour. Do you	
knighthood and my soldiership aside, I had lied in my throat if I	
knock you indifferently well. If you grow foul with me, Pistol, I	
knocks.                                      Exit GLOUCESTER	
know belov'd?	
know into what straits of fortune she is driven; and it is not	
know it; I will confess it to all the 'orld: I need not be	
know not, but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do.	
know now that I am in estimation; you shall perceive that a Jack	
know;	
knowing what they do!	
ladies. Good night, good night.                         Exit	
laid, and everything in order?	
lambs	
last that, I fear me, will never out of my bones. I	
laudable attempt either of valour or policy.	
leanness that afflicts us, the object of our misery, is as an	
learned no wit by nature nor art may complain of good breeding,	
legs, nor no more shoes than feet- nay, sometime more feet than	
less likelihood than to see me at her chamber window, hear me	
let loose my opinion; hold it no longer: this is no	
let me be vilely painted, and in such great letters as they write	
let us to our work.	
lethargy?	
letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of	
letters from the general, wherein he gives my son the whole name	
liberality, and such like, the spice and salt that season a man?	
lie in my throat. By heaven, I do love; and it hath taught me to	
lie.	
lift as much as his brother Hector.	
like her? that but seeing you should love her? and loving woo?	
like him that leapt into the custard; and out of it you'll run	
lips blows at his nose, and it is like a coal of fire, sometimes	
liquor.	
lisping hawthorn-buds that come like women in men's	
little little less-than-little wit from them that they have!	
little yellow beard, a Cain-colour'd beard.	
look you- is digt himself four yard under the countermines; by	
look'd for Master Caius, that calls himself Doctor of	
look, or any woman else.	
looks like a foul bombard that would shed his liquor. If	
lousy knave, mine host.	
lov'd well when they were alive. Now part them again, lest they	
love him, I should.'	
love that which my friend hates.	
love. And how can that be true love which is falsely attempted?	
love?	
loves not the common people.	
lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind	
magnanimous and most illustrious six-or-seven-times-honour'd	
maintained by the Owl, th' other by the Cuckoo. Ver, begin.	
make her husband a cuckold to make him a monarch? I should	
makes a great show. Here comes Monsieur Le Beau.	
man up like a bladder. There's villanous news abroad. Here was	
man yet that shall make you great.	
man'?	
man's voice.	
man.	
man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is,	
mann'd, hors'd, and wiv'd.	
manner; and PHRYNIA and TIMANDRA	
march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz,	
marks I had about me, as, the mark of my shoulder, the	
marks ready money. Marry, then ginger was not much in request,	
married; but thou art too fine in thy evidence; therefore stand	
master; so much my office.	
may be gone; it is not good you tarry here. By gar, I will	
may.	
me see, let me see, let me see. So, so, so, so,- so, so- yea,	
me see.                                              [Reads]	
me,	
me. I am not only witty in myself, but the cause that wit is in	
me. Let ten thousand devils come against me, and give me but the	
me. What say you to't, Sir John?	
me? Put off your maiden blushes; avouch the thoughts of your	
me? The search, sir, was profitable; and much fool may you find	
measure, yet a reasonable measure in strength. If I could win a	
measures of lawn, nor for gowns, petticoats, nor caps, nor any	
meet him at the gates, and redeliver our authorities there?	
meet him with any convenience, an he were double and double a	
meilleur que l'Anglais lequel je parle.	
melancholies I am! I will knog his urinals about his knave's	
memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.	
merchandise I will. Go, Tubal, and meet me at our synagogue; go,	
merchandise do sinfully miscarry upon the sea, the imputation of	
might he be, what a beard hast thou got! Thou hast got more hair	
mightst have hit upon it here. The commonwealth of Athens is	
mine honour in my necessity, am fain to shuffle, to hedge,	
mine own hands, since I was cast ashore.	
mine own people.	
mischief he does, if his weapon be out; he will foin like any	
miserable but a man may be true.              Exeunt THIEVES	
misprised: we will make it our suit to the Duke that the	
mistook him and sent to me, I should ne'er have denied his	
mistress to devise imposition enough than for us to undergo any	
mistress, my ten thousand ducats are yours; so is your diamond	
mockery, for I know this letter will make a contemplative idiot	
modesty that you will not extort from me what I am willing to	
monastery; but, by chance, nothing of what is writ. Look, th'	
money in thy purse. It cannot be that Desdemona should long	
monopoly out, they would have part on't. And ladies too, they	
months on her way.	
more remarkable in single oppositions. Yet this imperceiverant	
most courteous feathers, which bow the head and nod at every man.	
most sovereign prescription in Galen is but empiricutic and, to	
mountains may be remov'd with earthquakes, and so encounter.	
much of my father in me as you, albeit I confess your coming	
music a mornings; they say it will penetrate.	
must be peopled. When I said I would die a bachelor, I did not	
must give folks leave to prate. What the good-year!	
must go with me, Master Doctor.	
must let you understand I think myself in better plight for	
must produce for an interpreter.	
my coffers ransack'd, my reputation gnawn at; and I shall	
my fortunes.	
my horse, grey Capilet.	
my husband he is now here; and hath drawn him and the	
my leave of you.	
my quarrel.	
my sword against the humour of affection would deliver me from	
my wife, Master Doctor, is for you altogether.	
my wife, be reveng'd on Falstaff, and laugh at Page.	
myself; Lord Edmund Mortimer, my Lord of York, and Owen	
nails, d'arma, de bilbow.	
name his name, and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner.	
name; for you might have thrust him and all his apparel into an	
narrow to an ell broad!	
naturally inherit of his father, he hath, like lean, sterile, and	
ne'er drank sack in my life; and if you give me any conserves,	
neither savouring of poetry, wit, nor invention. I beseech your	
never move thee in French, unless it be to laugh at me.	
next.	
nicer needs. The last was the greatest, but that I have not ended	
night! Comets, importing change of times and states,	
no hide, the sheep no wool, the cat no perfume. Ha! Here's three	
no stronger than a nutshell, and as leaky as an unstanched	
no worse, if imagination amend them.	
noble Marcius.	
noise, they heavily vanish	
noise?	
not Anne Page, I shall turn your head out of my door.	
not be alter'd: Claudio must die to-morrow. Let him be furnish'd	
not drown'd. Is the storm overblown? I hid me under the	
not in words only, but in woes also: and yet there is a virtuous	
not march through Coventry with them, that's flat. Nay, and the	
not say he lies?	
not the bones of the buried; when he breathed, he was a man. But	
not therefore handle an English cudgel; you find it otherwise,	
not who sees Your back. Call you that backing of your friends? A	
not without wit and judgement. But, Roderigo, if thou hast that	
not- God be praised and blessed!- any hurt in the world, but	
not.	
not; for he this very day receives letters of strange tenour,	
now into my hand by an under-skinker, one that never spake other	
now, wit! Whither wander you?	
nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.	
nuncle? Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters!	
occasion.	
of PACORUS borne before him	
of a baser birth than tar- the very uncleanly flux of a cat. Mend	
of heart, to ride on a bay trotting horse over four-inch'd	
of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a	
of it.	
of my beauty, and am I now a subject for them? Let	
of prosperity, with a discovery of the infinite flatteries that	
of provocation, I will shelter me here.      [Embracing her]	
of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls	
of their wits, they would have no more discretion but to hang us;	
of you.	
off and on swifter than he that gibbets on the brewer's bucket.	
office, awakens me with this unwonted putting-on; methinks	
often heard of, and it is known to many in our land by the name	
old before thy time.	
on each side; accompanied with SIR THOMAS	
on my back, under the correction of bragging be it spoken, I	
on thy chin than Dobbin my fill-horse has on his tail.	
on your abode.	
on, hook on.	
operation in it. It ascends me into the brain; dries me there all	
or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.	
or bound my horse for her favours, I could lay on like a butcher,	
other door PETER, his man, with a drum and sandbag,	
other is not a thing for sale, and only the gift of the gods.	
other men fitter to go out than I.	
ought to be used.	
our better mirth.	
our business. Do not think, gentlemen, I am drunk: this is my	
our fair mistress, and be happy rivals in Bianca's love- to	
our house! He shows in this he loves his own barn better than he	
our return.	
ourselves to an unknown fear.	
out his head but I am thrust upon it. Well, I cannot last ever;	
out in our latter times.	
out of a song, as a weasel sucks eggs. More, I prithee, more.	
out of doors with it when I go from home; welcom'd home	
out of love with your nativity, and almost chide God for making	
out of my house yesterday in this basket. Why may not	
out of placket, thy pen from lender's book, and defy the foul	
out of weak surmises, but from proof as strong as my grief and as	
out.	
outpriz'd by a trifle.	
over the stage, and TAURUS, the Lieutenant of	
overlooking. I have those hopes of her good that her education	
overthrow. If I can cross him any way, I bless myself every way.	
own getting. Horns? Even so. Poor men alone? No, no; the noblest	
paper-fac'd villain.	
parents of the foresaid child or pupil, undertake your ben	
pass by him with the prisoners, and exeunt]	
pass. Yet the scarfs and the bannerets about thee did manifoldly	
passions, fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons,	
past it yet; and, I say to thee, he would mouth with a beggar	
pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of	
patience, be near me still, and set me lower:	
payment into plows, I warrant you.	
pensioners; but, I warrant you, all is one with her.	
perform, confound thee, for thou art a man!	
performance?	
persuading me not to kill the Duke.	
pest'red with such water-flies-diminutives of nature!	
piece of flesh indeed! Learn of the wise, and perpend: civet is	
pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,	
plain bald pate of Father Time himself.	
play is preferr'd. In any case, let Thisby have clean linen; and	
play wants. I pray you, fail me not.	
pluck'd this glove from his helm. If any man challenge this, he	
point of the letter that I dropp'd to betray him. He does smile	
poor old woman. That same knave Ford, her husband, hath	
potatoes; let it thunder to the tune of Greensleeves, hail	
powder. They'll fill a pit as well as better. Tush, man, mortal	
power that we have no power to do; for if he show us his wounds	
prais'd my Lord Such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg it- might	
pray'd,	
prediction; there's son against father: the King falls from bias	
presently.                            Exeunt HOSTESS and BOY	
preserve it as long as it pleases his Grace and his Majesty too!	
pretty; it is well.	
profession a tinker? Ask Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of	
profitably removed, without the which there were no expectation	
prologue; and let the prologue seem to say we will do no harm	
promise him an excellent piece.	
prophet, the Nazarite, conjured the devil into! I will buy with	
proud, violent, testy magistrates-alias fools- as any in Rome.	
provided I have your commendation for my more free entertainment.	
pump, that, when the single sole of it is worn, the jest may	
punishments for him. Strike up, pipers!	
purpose, it would make a great gap in your own honour and shake	
purse; borrowing only lingers and lingers it out, but the disease	
put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the	
quean to a wrangling knave, as the nun's lip to the friar's	
quickly.	
ransomed, and a many poor men's lives saved.	
rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and	
rascally, scald, beggarly, lousy, pragging knave, Pistol- which	
rather than forty shillings I had such a leg, and so sweet a	
read, my lord?	
reason to poise another of sensuality, the blood and baseness of	
recovered?	
refused it, the rabblement hooted and clapped their chopped hands	
relief, if it be but for that. If I can recover him, and	
remember that I am an ass. Though it be not written down, yet	
remembrance to this very instant disaster of his setting i' th'	
renegado; for there is no Christian that means to be saved by	
renown made it not stir- was pleas'd to let him seek danger where	
return the conqueror. Then am I the prisoner, and his bed my	
return'd.	
rheumatic as two dry toasts; you cannot one bear with another's	
rheumatic day!	
ring, which, in my opinion, o'ervalues it something. But I make	
roast malt-worms. For the boy- there is a good angel about him;	
rob the thieves and go merrily to London, it would be argument	
rod he might have bestowed on you, who, as I take it, have stol'n	
roguery to be found in villanous man. Yet a coward is worse than	
roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing	
rose, in good truth, la! But, i' faith, you have drunk too much	
run and roar'd, as ever I heard bullcalf. What a slave art thou	
rut-time, Jove, or who can blame me to piss my tallow?	
sad a passage 'tis!-whose skill was almost as great as his	
sad?	
said she, a wise gentleman.' 'Nay,' said I, 'he hath the	
said, and, as I say, paying for them very honestly; for, as you	
sake! But manhood is melted into cursies, valour into compliment,	
same whoreson apoplexy.	
say't, is an honest exceeding poor man, and, God be thanked, well	
says he that takes upon him not to conceive. The answer is as	
scorch me up like a burning-glass! Here's another letter to	
seal-ring of my grandfather's worth forty mark.	
search, seek, find out. I'll warrant we'll unkennel the fox.	
see! Well said, i' faith, neighbour Verges. Well, God's a good	
see't.	
see, two and thirty, a pip out?	
seeming, for the better compass of his salt and most hidden loose	
seethes.	
send forth to bleaching.	
sent your worship a moming's draught of sack.	
services. Besides, there is no king, be his cause never so	
seven, two tree hours for him, and he is no come.	
shall become him well; wherein if he chance to fail, he hath	
shall bring from him. There is no more mercy in him than there is	
shall find means, and acquaint you withal.	
sham'd, y'are overthrown, y'are undone for ever.	
shame. The lady is dead upon mine and my master's false	
she loves you. Have not your worship a wart above your eye?	
she, 'that have so oft encount'red him with scorn, write to him	
shipwright, or the carpenter?	
should be as ward to the son, and the son manage his revenue.	
shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing	
shows to man the tailors of the earth; comforting therein that	
shrinks before his treading. He is able to pierce a corslet with	
shrouded any but lazars. Amen. Where's Achilles?	
sick. There is a man haunts the forest that abuses our young	
silent, that you may hear. Believe me for mine honor, and have	
simple of the tetter, take and take again such preposterous	
since; but I think now 'tis not to be found; or if it were, it	
sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow	
sir, for your kindness I owe you a good turn.	
sirrah [stabs him], with a new wound in your thigh, come you	
slander the Lady Hero; how you were brought into the orchard and	
slave! you cur!	
sleeping.	
sleeve unbutton'd, your shoe untied, and every thing about you	
slept in the contriving of lust, and wak'd to do it. Wine lov'd	
so early. He cannot choose but take this service I have done	
so.	
so. Give me thy hand, celestial; so. Boys of art, I have	
so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy,	
sola!	
soldat ici est dispose tout a cette heure de couper votre gorge.	
soldier keep his oath?	
soldiers show themselves]	
some marks of love in her.	
sometimes, leaving the fear of God on the left hand, and hiding	
son?	
sooner the better.	
spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection.	
spirit; for I should flout him if he writ to me. Yea, though I	
stars.	
stirring, tell her there's one Cassio entreats her a little favor	
stocks all night, poor gallant knave.	
strains upon thee! Not to be endur'd! Well, go your way to her,	
strange suits, disable all the benefits of your own country, be	
strangers to him. But I can tell you one thing, my lord, and	
stroke	
stuff a botcher's cushion or to be entomb'd in an ass's	
subject.	
such as can hold in, such as will strike sooner than speak, and	
such estimable wonder overfar believe that, yet thus far I will	
supplication?	
swagg'rer comes not in my doors. I was before Master Tisick, the	
swearers enow to beat the honest men and hang up them.	
sworn. For my own part, I came in late. What should he do here?	
tailor for wearing his new doublet before Easter, with another	
take Vanity the puppet's part against the royalty of her father.	
take thee a box on the ear.	
take them all; I'll answer the coinage. Bid my lieutenant Peto	
tales of me. I am bound to the Count Orsino's court. Farewell.	
taught them me. This is the right fencing grace, my lord; tap for	
tempest.	
terms, gone to heaven.	
th' shoulder.	
than to fernseed for your walking invisible.	
that Don John had made, away went Claudio enrag'd; swore he would	
that I might see.	
that a terrible oath, with a swaggering accent sharply twang'd	
that drum or another, or 'hic jacet.'	
that honour of hers which you imagine so reserv'd.	
that it may be thought I have wept; for I must speak in passion,	
that she loves him with an enraged affection. It is past the	
that will not, hold your tongues.	
that-by chance I found. It beggars any man that keeps it.	
the Count's was to-day with my lady, she is much out of quiet.	
the DAUPHIN, with others	
the DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM, and the LORD SAY	
the German hunting, in water-work, is worth a thousand of these	
the PRINCESS KATHERINE, ALICE, and other LADIES; the DUKE OF BURGUNDY,	
the Princess kill'd a pricket.	
the Spinii one Captain Spurio, with his cicatrice, an emblem of	
the Tiltyard; and then he burst his head for crowding among the	
the army will maintain upon Edmund, supposed Earl of Gloucester,	
the basest horn of his hoof is more musical than the pipe of	
the bed and felt them, and they were as cold as any stone; then I	
the brain awe a man from the career of his humour? No, the world	
the curtain and sits reading pensively	
the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.	
the exchange.	
the faction of fools.                                        Exit	
the foul-mouth'dst rogue in England.	
the highest compulsion of base fear, offer to betray you and	
the horse- with a linen stock on one leg and a kersey boot-hose	
the humour of forty fancies prick'd in't for a feather; a	
the match is made. Would any man have thought this? See	
the no is, the French doctor, my master-I may call him	
the other day, he did vow upon his knees he would be even with	
the other godmother, and LADIES. The troop pass once about the stage,	
the pander to her dishonour, and equally to me disloyal.'	
the prison, Pompey. You will turn good husband now, Pompey; you	
the seventh cause?	
the spoil of her honour. He hath given her his monumental ring,	
the stage.  Then enter Macbeth.	
the sun and the moon; or, rather, the sun, and not the moon- for	
the two CARDINALS sit under him as judges. The QUEEN takes place	
the watch to babble and to talk is most tolerable, and not to be	
the wooing of  peascod instead of her; from whom I took two cods,	
thee between a pair of sheets.	
thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course	
thee-	
their father, making such pitiful dole over them that all the	
their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the next month,	
their money. These debts may well be call'd desperate ones, for a	
them.	
them? Why, so- and I know not what's spent in the search. Why,	
then?	
then? Were not that a botchy core?	
there is any martial law in the world.	
there is remuneration, for the best ward of mine honour is	
there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you	
there, whose villainous saffron would have made all the unbak'd	
therefore, if you should deal double with her, truly it were an	
these wars, his great opposer, Coriolanus, being now in no	
they be long ere they are wooed, they are constant being won;	
they lov'd; no sooner lov'd but they sigh'd; no sooner sigh'd but	
they travail for, if it be just and true report that goes of his	
they'll come in straight.	
thimble,	
thing; after, a wonderful sweet air, with admirable rich words to	
think me a swallow, an arrow, or a bullet? Have I, in my poor and	
think thou wilt howl.	
think upon hellfire and Dives that lived in purple; for there he	
thirteen, this spirit walks in.	
this a place to roar in? Fetch me a dozen crab-tree staves,	
this boy will carry a letter twenty mile as easy as a cannon	
this opportunity you let time wash off, and you are now sail'd	
this, who yet is no dearer in my account. Though this knave came	
thou could'st stammer, that thou mightst pour this conceal'd man	
thou fear to strike, and to make me certain it is done, thou art	
thou sure of this?	
thou?	
thoughts.	
thousands, did not you chiefly belong to my heart? I have told	
three all ready.	
three and fifty upon poor old Jack, then am I no two-legg'd	
through the most fann'd and winnowed opinions; and do but blow	
through the nose, as if you snuff'd up love by smelling love,	
thrown.	
thrust through the doublet, four through the hose; my buckler cut	
thus get my wife into corners.	
thus:	
thy chance to kill me'-	
thy flatterers?	
thy mother; for when thou gav'st them the rod, and put'st down	
thy pocket but tavern reckonings, memorandums of bawdy houses,	
time of night? Do ye make an ale-house of my lady's house, that	
to La Pucelle	
to London, where we will have the mayor's sword borne before us.	
to a true man.	
to bar your offence herein too, I durst attempt it against any	
to be kind. And tell him this from me: I count it one of my	
to challenge him the field, and then to break promise with him	
to have seen much and to have nothing is to have rich eyes and	
to her succour, which were the hope o' th' Strand, where	
to himself again, he said, if he had done or said anything amiss,	
to keep Prince Harry in continual laughter the wearing out of six	
to know, or to take upon yourself that which I am sure you do not	
to notify that her husband will be absence from his house	
to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too	
to speak with you.	
to the plate. Good thou, save me a piece of marchpane and, as	
to their queen.	
to write and read comes by nature.	
to you, I think the King is but a man as I am: the violet smells	
to your gracious acceptance, whose trial shall better publish his	
to-morrow, in the congregation where I should wed, there will I	
to-night.	
toe. 'Tis no matter if I do halt; I have the wars for my colour,	
together in consent, like so many wild geese. If I had a suit to	
together. [ To PHEBE ] I will marry you if ever I marry woman,	
tongue,	
too much.	
too, howsoever he hath had intelligence.	
totters.	
touching the Duke of York, I will take my death I never meant him	
toward him.	
tragedians-to belie him I will not-and more of his soldier-ship	
traveller, and wild Halfcan that stabb'd Pots, and, I think,	
travels; in which my often rumination wraps me in a most humorous	
true, think you?	
truer than you purpos'd.	
truth will come to light; murder cannot be hid long; a man's son	
truth, I know it is a sin to be a mocker, but he- why, he hath a	
try my patience.	
two-hand sword.	
unbuttoning thee after supper, and sleeping upon benches after	
under an impress.	
understood. What's your offence?	
unless a man were curs'd I cannot tell what to think on't. What	
unpruned, untrained, or rather unlettered, or ratherest	
unto it. I will none of you.	
unwilling and, for mine own part, have a desire to stay with my	
up already and call for eggs and butter. They will away	
upon him.	
use, any sword, weapon, or dagger, henceforward, upon	
valour. Challenge me the Count's youth to fight with him; hurt	
vantages.	
varld I shall leave behind.	
very fool and a prodigal.	
very ill house too.	
very prop.	
villain!	
villany? Thou seest I have more flesh than another man, and	
votary: I have vow'd to Jaquenetta to hold the plough for her	
vouchsafe me a word?	
wall.	
wand'ring knight so fair. And I prithee, sweet wag, when thou art	
war betwixt Signior Benedick and her. They never meet but there's	
warranted need, give him a better proclamation. Let him be but	
wars eat us not up, they will; and there's all the love they bear	
was in a place where I could not breed no contendon with him; but	
was put down, and the worser allow'd by order of law a furr'd	
was yet of many accounted beautiful; but though I could not with	
water.	
way is to conjure you; and I'll begin with the women. I charge	
way then to unfool me again? Set down the basket, villain!	
we talk of were return'd again. This ungenitur'd agent will	
wear pearl and gold? I thank my good father, I am able to	
welcome. I had rather be a beggar's dog than Apemantus.	
well I counterfeited. Heigh-ho!	
well appear'd by your tongue. What's the news in Rome? I have a	
well as waiting in the court, I can tell you.	
well were some of your brags dismounted.	
well?	
were done- at such and such a sconce, at such a breach, at such a	
were fairies. See now how wit may be made a Jack-a-Lent	
were lustier than he is, and twenty such jacks; and if I cannot,	
what is't to leave betimes? Let be.	
what they can; I will walk up and down here, and will sing, that	
what warmth is there in your affection towards any of these	
what's to be done?	
where it would not, I have used my credit.	
whether one Captain Dumain be i' th' camp, a Frenchman; what his	
which I will add	
which is baser, guided by her foot, which is basest, doth tread.	
which, as I say, to vex her I will execute in the clothes that	
while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player	
while.	
whipp'd for speaking true; thou'lt have me whipp'd for lying;	
whipping. You would answer very well to a whipping, if you were	
whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a	
whole charge consists of ancients, corporals, lieutenants,	
whole wealth of thy wit in an instant? I pray thee understand a	
whom I know most faults.	
whoreson smooth-pates do now wear nothing but high shoes, and	
wife's wit going to your neighbour's bed.	
wife.	
will be King and Queen-save our Graces!-and Trinculo	
will be given to Ajax. He will be the ninth Worthy. A conqueror	
will eat no supper that night.	
will scour you with my rapier, as I may, in fair terms; if you	
will serve; for once we stood up about the corn, he himself stuck	
will, after he hath laugh'd at such shallow follies in others,	
will.	
wilt quake for this shortly.	
wisdom	
wisdom there.	
wisdom, and awake your senses, that you may the better judge. If	
with a Barbary hen, if her feathers turn back in any show of	
with a whole army shooting at me. She speaks poniards, and every	
with his lady's fan. Is there not my father, my uncle, and	
with it when I return; nay, I bear it on my shoulders as	
with my butter, Parson Hugh the Welshman with my	
with my lady about a bear-baiting here.	
with these tidings.                              Exit SIMPLE	
with you. I shall discover a thing to you, wherein	
withal.	
wither; a full eye will wax hollow. But a good heart, Kate, is	
without flowers.	
without seeking find, and be embrac'd by a piece of tender air;	
woman! a sweet woman!	
woman- which together is: abandon the society of this female; or,	
woman.	
wondrous fat marriage.	
wont to be a follower, but now you are a leader. Whether	
word.	
words, swears brave oaths, and breaks them bravely, quite	
work.	
worn in my cap than to wait at my heels. I was never mann'd with	
worship good morrow.	
worship more of the wart the next time we have confidence;	
would desires to be acquainted withal.	
would do little good upon him. She may perhaps call him half a	
would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father	
would have none but knaves follow it, since a fool gives it.	
would neither serve for the writing nor the tune.	
would wish you' or 'I would request you' or 'I would entreat you	
wouldst not have slipp'd out of my contemplation; but it is no	
year, in th' afternoon.	
years' purchase.	
yet hie you to Egypt again.	
yet?	
you and prepare Aliena; for, look you, here comes my Rosalind.	
you and yourself and all the world know to be no petter than a	
you are past service; and for your part, Bullcalf, grow you come	
you could possibly have found in any part of Illyria. Will you	
you good rest!'	
you have been a notorious bawd.	
you have push'd out your gates the very defender of them, and in	
you have show'd yourself a wise physician, and Sir Hugh	
you have studied your questions.	
you into a butterwoman's mouth, and buy myself another of	
you nearly.	
you that, though she harbours you as her kins-man, she's nothing	
you will help to bear it, Sir John, take all, or half, for easing	
you'll undertake her no more.	
you, Francis, your white canvas doublet will sully. In Barbary,	
you, O women, for the love you bear to men, to like as much of	
you, for out o' question you were born in a merry hour.	
you, sell with you, talk with you, walk with you, and so	
you; being as good a man as yourself, both in the disciplines of	
young lady ask'd for, the nurse curs'd in the pantry, and	
your having. Back.	
your honour mark his face?	
your mother?	
your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien	
your will?	
your wits than a fool.	
yourself with your eyes, or knew yourself with your judgment, the	
youth, and he that hath no beard is less than a man; and he that	
zounds, I lie; for they pray continually to their saint, the	
